Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

  * [ Academics ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/)
    * [ Programs ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/programs.html)
    * [ 4+1/Accelerated Degrees ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/accelerated-degrees.html)
    * [ Pre-Professional Programs ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/pre-professional.html)
    * [ Outcomes ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/outcomes.html)
    * [ Research ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/research.html)
    * [ Schools ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/schools.html)
    * [ Honors Programs ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/honors.html)
    * [ Class Profile ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/profile.html)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
  * [ Cost & Aid ](/admissions/undergraduate/cost/)
  * [ Life ](/admissions/undergraduate/life/)
  * [ Visit ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ Contact ](/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)

#  Academics

_Academic Life_ **Beyond Textbooks**

Binghamton students are innovative and creative. As one of the nation's elite
public universities, Binghamton combines rigorous academics, distinguished
faculty and state-of-the-art facilities to engage and challenge our students.

Challenging ideas and thinking critically is encouraged at Binghamton, and
academic life is anything but textbook.

Our high-achieving students represent a great diversity of life experiences,
from first-generation college-goers to international students. Beyond their
talent, these classmates share a desire to shape the future through
technology, insight and intellectual exploration.

## [ Programs/Majors  Our academic offerings encompass 130+ majors, minors,
certificates, concentrations, emphases, tracks and specializations.
](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/programs.html)

## [ Our Schools  The University consists of six schools attracting
outstanding students and award-winning faculty.
](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/schools.html)

## [ 4+1/Accelerated degrees  Finish your degree faster save a full year of
tuition and begin your career sooner.
](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/accelerated-degrees.html)

## [ Outcomes  Whether students decide to attend top graduate schools or enter
the workforce after commencement, they’re all making a name for themselves.
](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/outcomes.html)

[ ![choose major quiz](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/choose-major-
quiz.svg) ](/admissions/undergraduate/promo/quiz/)

###  Not sure how to choose your college major?  
[ _Take our quiz!_ ](/admissions/undergraduate/promo/quiz/)

Loading...

##  Binghamton students take on the challenge to tell you all about their
major in under a minute.  
Can they do it?

[ More major minute videos
](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4axz0nXAvkycM8mLvSugHjcWAIXJpzoh)

##  Our Faculty

Top scholars in their subjects with 93% holding the highest degree offered in
their field, Binghamton's faculty includes more than 60 distinguished
professors and published experts in everything from Medieval literature and
schizophrenia to digital forensics and evolutionary biology.

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

  * [ Academics ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/)
    * [ Programs ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/programs.html)
    * [ 4+1/Accelerated Degrees ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/accelerated-degrees.html)
    * [ Pre-Professional Programs ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/pre-professional.html)
    * [ Outcomes ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/outcomes.html)
    * [ Research ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/research.html)
    * [ Schools ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/schools.html)
    * [ Honors Programs ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/honors.html)
    * [ Class Profile ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/profile.html)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
  * [ Cost & Aid ](/admissions/undergraduate/cost/)
  * [ Life ](/admissions/undergraduate/life/)
  * [ Visit ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ Contact ](/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Facademics%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Facademics%2Findex.html&text=Academics+%7C+Undergraduate+Admissions+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Facademics%2Findex.html&description=Academic+life+is+anything+but+a+textbook+at+Binghamton+University%21+Join+a+community%0Aof+students+who+are+encouraged+to+challenge+ideas+and+think+critically.&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Facademics%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Academics%20%7C%20Undergraduate%20Admissions%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/academics/index.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)
[ __ visit  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/admissions/undergraduate/academics/index.pcf)

