Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Electrical and Computer Engineering ](/electrical-computer-engineering)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Electrical and Computer Engineering ](/electrical-computer-engineering)

[ Electrical and Computer Engineering ](/electrical-computer-engineering)

  * [ About ](/electrical-computer-engineering/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/electrical-computer-engineering/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/electrical-computer-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ Research ](/electrical-computer-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ People ](/electrical-computer-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/electrical-computer-engineering/give.html)

#  Courses

  * EECE 115 - FRI Image & Acoustic Signal I 

This is one of two lecture-lab courses of a 2-semester sequence for FRI
students in Image and Acoustic Signals Analysis. Computing skills in MATLAB
and Unix and introduction to computer programming. Technical writing using
LaTeX. Students will learn research techniques while gaining understanding of
research problems in this area. Prerequisites: HARP 170 and enrollment in
Freshman Research Immersion (FRI) program. Offered in the Spring semester. 4
credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 212 - Linear Algebra&Eng Programming 

An introduction to linear algebra for engineers with computer analysis,
visualization, and mathematical programming. Linear algebra topics include
matrix operations, systems of linear equations, determinants, solution to
matrix equations, vector space, eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Introduction to
engineering programming includes variables and arrays, matrix operation,
functions, data representation, user defined functions and a brief
introduction on graphical programming. Engineering applications such as the
matrix representation of graphs, matrices applied to electric circuits and
linear systems will be introduced during the class. Laboratory exercises.
Prerequisite: Calculus I. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 215 - FRI Image & Acoustic Signal II 

This is the second of two lecture-lab courses of a 2-semester sequence for FRI
students in Image and Acoustic Signals Analysis. Computer programming in C,
and selected topics in multimedia signal processing and computer vision.
Students will learn research techniques while gaining understanding of
research problems in this area. Prerequisites: HARP 170 and EECE 115/CS 115,
and enrollment in Freshman Research Immersion (FRI) program. Offered in the
Fall semester. 4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of
Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 251 - Digital Logic Design 

Fundamental and advanced concepts of digital logic. Boolean algebra and
functions. Design and implementation of combinational and sequential logic,
minimization techniques, number representation, and basic binary arithmetic.
Logic families and digital integrated circuits and use of CAD tools for logic
design. Laboratory exercises. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits. Course
fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 260 - Electric Circuits 

Units and definitions. Ohm's Law and Kirchhoff's Laws. Analysis of resistive
circuits. Circuit analysis using: Nodal and mesh methods, Norton and Thevenin
theorems, and voltage divider. Transient and sinusoidal steady-state response
of circuits containing resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Laboratory
exercises. Prerequisite: PHYS 132. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 281 - EECE Seminar I 

Overview of the fields of electrical engineering and computer engineering.
Various sub-fields within EE and CoE are explored, with emphasis on how they
are interrelated. Issues relevant to careers in EE and CoE (e.g., typical
tasks done by EEs and CoEs) are explored. Offered every fall semester. 1
credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 287 - Sophomore Design 

Design-based introduction to embedded computer systems. Organization and
composition of computer processors, memory, and peripherals. Introduction to
assembly-language and embedded C programming. Design of hardware and software
for embedded processor applications. Laboratory exercises and design projects.
Prerequisites: CS 211 and EECE 251. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 301 - Signals And Systems 

Provides an introduction to continuous-time and discrete-time signals and
linear systems. Topics covered include time-domain descriptions (differential
and difference equations, convolution) and frequency-domain descriptions
(Fourier series and transforms, transfer function, frequency response, Z
transforms and Laplace transforms). Prerequisites: EECE 212 and 260 and MATH
324. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 315 - Electronics I 

Introduction to electronics, concentrating on the fundamental devices (diode,
transistor, operational amplifier, logic gate) and their basic applications;
modeling techniques; elementary circuit design based on devices. Laboratory
exercises. Prerequisites: EECE 260 and EECE 251. Offered every fall semester.
4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 323 - Electromagnetics 

Physics and applications of electromagnetic fields as encapsulated in the
vector form of Maxwell's equations. Static electrical and magnetic fields,
time-varying electromagnetic fields, Poisson's equations, fundamental laws of
electromagnetic fields (including Gauss's law, Ampere's law, Faraday's law,
and Biot-Savart's law), time-harmonic fields, wave propagation, and
transmission lines. Numerical techniques. Prerequisites: EECE 260 and MATH
323. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 332 - Semiconductor Devices 

Basic theory of semiconductors, p-n junctions, bipolar junction transistors,
junction and MOS field effect devices; device design and modeling; and
fabrication. Prerequisite: PHYS 132. Corequisite: EECE 315. Offered every fall
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 351 - Digital Systems Design 

Synchronous sequential circuit design. Algorithmic state machine method; state
reduction; control-datapath circuit partitioning. Design of sequential
arithmetic circuits. Memory interfacing; bus-based design. Specification and
synthesis of digital systems using hardware description language and
implementation using programmable logic devices. Simulation, analysis, testing
and verification of digital systems. Laboratory exercises. Prerequisite: EECE
251. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the
Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 359 - Computer Comm and Networking 

Theoretical basis for and practical foundations of modern data communications
within and between computing systems. Topics include: properties of signals
and transmission media; data encoding and modulation, multiplexing, and
multiple access; data integrity, error detection and error control, forward
error correction; protocol concepts and design, flow control, sliding window
protocols, data link control; local area networking, LAN standards, and
interconnecting LANs; networking and inter-networking devices, bridges,
repeaters, routers; inter-networking protocols. Lab exercises. Prerequisites:
EECE 301 and EECE 351. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 361 - Control Systems 

"Introduction to analysis, design and modeling of control systems. Fourier and
Laplace transforms, frequency response, transfer functions static and
transient analysis. Systems block diagrams and signal-flow graphs. Concepts of
stability. Numerical simulation and design of simple control systems.
Introduction of discrete-time control. Prerequisite: EECE 301. Offered every
spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 377 - Communications Systems 

Fundamentals of communications systems. Modulation and demodulation methods.
Characteristics of modern analog and digital communications methods.
Prerequisites: EECE 301 and ISE 261\. Offered every spring semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 382 - EECE Seminar II 

Provides an overview of the professional aspects of the fields of electrical
engineering and computer engineering. Topics to be covered include: typical
career paths in EECE, engineering ethics, resume writing and job search
techniques, preparing for graduate school, professional engineer license, etc.
Offered every fall semester. 1 credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 387 - Design Lab 

This course provides experience with the engineering design process, which
spans significant areas of electrical and computer engineering. Lecture will
focus on various aspects of the design process as well as discussions of
component characteristics. EE student prerequisites: EECE 301 and EECE 315.
CoE student prerequisites: EECE 315 and EECE 351. Offered every spring
semester. 4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. .
Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 402 - Digital Signal Processing I 

Covers the general area of discrete-time signals and the analysis and design
of discrete time systems. Topics include time domain analysis, solutions of
difference equations, Z-transform analysis, sampling of continuous-time
signals, discrete Fourier transforms, Fast Fourier Transforms, and spectral
analysis. Processing of discrete-time signals using the DFT and FFT. Design
and implementation of discrete-time filters. Extensive use of software
simulations in a high-level language such as Matlab. Technical elective.
Prerequisite: EECE 301. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 403 - Digital Audio SignalProcessing 

This course covers the fundamentals of digital audio signal processing. Topics
include analog-to-digital converters and digital-to-analog converters, models
for characterizing and analyzing quantization errors in digital audio,
sampling rate conversion, design of filters and equalizers, algorithms for
simulating room acoustics, and algorithms for implementing digital audio
effects. Implementation of algorithms using Matlab is emphasized. 3 credits
Prerequisites: EECE 301 and ISE 261, or instructor approval. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 405 - Cryptography & Info Security 

Introduction to codes and ciphers, information security, and mathematical
basis of encryption. Cryptanalysis (code-breaking), modern block and stream
ciphers, public-key cryptography, protocols, security engineering and threat
management. Technical elective. Prerequisite: ISE 261 or MATH 327 and CS 211.
Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 407X - Intro to Quantum Computing 

This course will introduce the basics of quantum computing, including the
theoretical physics background, mechanics of creation and manipulation of
physical qubits, the mathematical basis for qubit gates, and quantum computing
and algorithms. Credits 3 Prerequisites: EECE 212 and/or permission from
instructor Offered Spring 2023 Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 414 - Software-Defined Radio 

This course explores and analyzes the individual elements required to design a
software-defined radio (SDR) receiver. Optimizations and tradeoffs are
discussed as the receiver elements are integrated together. For the final
project, the functional elements are integrated into a digital receiver system
and the performance of the receiver is assessed. Topics include: modulation
and demodulation, signal sampling, pulse shaping, bandwidth and data rate,
synchronization, linear equalization, coding and decoding, timing recovery,
and carrier recovery. Matlab is used to model the receiver elements and to
implement the final project. Technical elective. Prerequisites: EECE 359 or
EECE 377 or Equivalent. Offered every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 416 - Analog Circuit Design 

Introduction to analog circuit design. Course topics include large and small-
signal analysis, circuit characteristics (gain, input/output resistance,
etc.), amplifier structures, frequency/time response, feedback and stability,
multistage amplifier and active filters. This course includes several
assignments requiring the use of software tools for circuit simulation.
Technical elective. Prerequisite: EECE 315. Offered every fall semester. 3
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 418 - Power Sysl: Equip & Power Flow 

The purpose of this course is to form a solid basis for analyzing power
systems. The course gives an overview of a power system and is focused on the
basic concepts and elements that are essential in power system planning,
operation and control. The course introduces modeling methods for major
components in a power system and the methods for solving power flow problems.
Specifically, the course addresses the following topics: an overview of power
system and structure of electric power industry; the 3 phase circuits in power
systems; steady state modeling of generators and transformers; transmission
line modeling; power flow analysis. Technical elective. Prerequisites: EECE
323, or approval of instructor. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 419 - Power Electronics 

Electronic processing of electrical energy. Overview of power electronics
devices such as DMOSFET, IGBT and Thyristor. Power supply circuits from AC or
DC sources as used in computers, inverters and variable-speed motor drives.
Analytical and numerical techniques for simulation. Technical elective.
Prerequisites: EECE 315 and EECE 301. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 421 - Electric Drives 

Fundamentals of electric drive systems with applications emphasis. The course
offers an integrative treatment of multiple components that make up electric
drives, including electrical machines, power-electronics-based converters,
mechanical systems, feedback controller design, and the interaction of the
drives with the utility grid. Technical elective. Prerequisites: EECE 301 and
EECE 323. Offered every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 423 - Power SysII: Protect & Control 

The purpose of this course is to help students develop skills for analyzing
electric power systems beyond power flow solutions. The following topics are
covered: basics of economic dispatch; basics of fault analysis and fault
current calculations; generator transients induced by grid faults; basics of
power system protection; basics of stability concepts and stability analysis;
basics of load frequency control, automatic generation control, reactive power
and voltage control. Technical elective. Prerequisites: EECE 418. Offered
every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 429X - Machine Learning 

Provide a broad introduction to machine learning and its applications. We will
briefly review python programming, statistics, and linear algebra. Then,
fundamentals of machine learning will be introduced, with topics including
supervised learning (parametric/non-parametric algorithms, support vector
machines, kernels, neural networks), unsupervised learning (clustering,
dimensionality reduction, recommender systems), and fundamental theories
(bias/variance theory). ECE applications such as time sequence forecasting,
speech recognition, and image processing will be described. Offered Spring
2023 3 credits. Prerequisites: ISE 261 & MATH 324, permission from instructor
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 431 - Intro to Microfabrication 

Multidisciplinary Introduction to Microfabrication: Introduction to clean room
tools, procedures, and theory through the fabrication and characterization of
various devices from the fields of electrical engineering, mechanical
engineering, physics and chemistry. Fabrication of the devices will cover most
clean room tools and techniques, including lithography-based patterning
methodologies; chemical vapor deposition; sputtering; thermal and e-beam
evaporation; thermal oxidation; reactive ion etching; ion implantation; and
wet chemical processing. The accompanying lecture will cover the theory of the
tools used. Technical elective. Prerequisite: EECE 332 or an equivalent course
in basic semiconductor device physics. Offered every spring semester. 4
credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 432 - Physics & Tech of Solar Cells 

This course focuses on the science and engineering fundamentals of
photovoltaic solar energy devices and systems. The lectures cover solar
radiation, semiconductor properties, p-n junction theory, solar cell operating
principles, solar cell device designs and fabrication of traditional
crystalline silicon and thin film solar cells. Students will learn the
advanced concepts for high efficiency solar cells and emerging photovoltaic
devices like organic (plastic) solar cells and quantum solar cells. The course
covers solar module interconnections, engineering design of solar electricity
systems, and power conditioning at the systems level. Technical elective.
Prerequisites: EECE 332 or equivalent is desirable but not essential. Offered
every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 433 - Advanced Semiconductor Lasers 

Physics, device structure, and operation of semiconductor lasers. Band
structure in solids, optical processes in semiconductors, p-n junctions, and
quasi-Fermi levels; rate equation model for semiconductor lasers, static and
dynamic characteristics; characteristics of distributed feedback, Bragg
reflector, vertical cavity and Fabry-Perot lasers. Technical Elective.
Prerequisite: EECE 332. Offered every third semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 434X - Implemn of Human Org-on-a-Chip 

This course introduces fundamentals of human organ-on-a-chip systems which
refer to biomedical MEMS (bioMEMS) devices containing miniaturized human
organs for drug screening, disease modeling and regenerative medicine. Topics
to be covered in this course will focus on applications of electrical
engineering principles combined with human cell culture techniques for the
design, fabrication and interrogation of organ chip models of brain, lung,
intestine and eye. The aims of the course include to: (i) study
microfabrication and MEMS technologies in the context of human organ-on-a-chip
implement and innovations; (ii) provide general background for in vitro cell
culture techniques; (iii) review electrical, optical, biological sensor
techniques for the analysis of organ-on-a-chip systems; and (iv) study the
exemplary applications of organ-on-a-chip technology in biomedical research
and medicine. This course also provides broad discussion on recent and future
trends in human organ-on-a-chip systems and bioMEMS technologies.
Prerequisites: EECE 332 or permission from instructor. Credits: 3 Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 438 - System On A Chip Design 

This course will provide an overview of the components of system-on-a-chip
(SOC) design from initial technology and architectural choices, to
hardware/software design techniques (e.g., data/control flow modeling and
implementation, embedded cores and coprocessors, hardware/software
communication) as well as SOC implementation issues (e.g., performance, core
selection, on-chip communication networks, power management, package
constraints and cost). Also covered are SOC design and implementation
processes (e.g., functional integration, simulation, clocking strategies,
timing, design for test, and debug strategies). Technical elective.
Prerequisites: EECE 287 and EECE 315\. Offered every spring semester. 3
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 451 - Digital Systems Design II 

VLSI design, synthesis and test using hardware description language (HDL) at
the register-transfer level (RTL). HDL programming and simulation basics,
followed by advanced HDL programming for synthesis and test benching.
Principles of RTL synthesis introduced. Design and synthesis of digital
systems to meet constraints. Pre-synthesis and post-synthesis verification
using simulation. Commercial synthesis tool discussed in detail. Technical
elective. Prerequisite: EECE 351. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 452 - Computer Design 

This course will cover several topics in the area of computer architecture. We
will discuss various concepts behind the designs of current microprocessors.
In particular, the topics that will be covered in the course are: RISC
machines and instruction set architectures, performance evaluation, pipelined
architecture, static and dynamic scheduling, instruction-level parallelism,
advanced pipelining, speculative execution, memory hierarchy and organization,
multi-processing, compiler techniques (and more). Technical elective.
Prerequisites: EECE 351 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 453 - Computer Network Architecture 

This is an introduction level computer network architecture course for
senior/graduate students. The goal is to provide the students with a
comprehensive picture of the technologies behind the Internet and applications
on top of it. Starting with a brief review of some basics of networking, we
will discuss from the lowest levels of packet transmissions through the
highest levels of application software, under the umbrella of the TCP/IP
architecture. Emphasis will be given on network architecture, components and
design issues. Technical elective. Prerequisite: Basic knowledge of
probability and statistics. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 455 - CMOS VLSI Circuits & Arch. 

The topics include the principles of MOSFET transistors, characteristics of
CMOS digital circuits, layout design and process, performance analysis of CMOS
gates, circuit design styles using MOSFET, performance, area and power
optimization of CMOS circuits. Commercial design and simulation tools will be
used in the class. Laboratory assignments include design, layout, extraction
and simulation. Technical elective. Prerequisite: EECE 351. Offered every fall
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 457 - Fundamentals of Comp Security 

Introduction to security engineering, systemic analysis and common design
principles. Cryptographic protocols, multilevel security, system evaluation,
real-world vulnerabilities and attacks. Technical elective. Prerequisites:
EECE 287 or CS 211, familiarity with C or C++ or similar programming language.
Offered every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 458 - Embedded Systems Design 

Microcontroller based embedded systems design and analysis. Bare metal
assembly and C software development for hardware and software integration.
Driver based hardware abstraction and input/output synchronization. Sensor
hardware integration, information extraction and fusion. Microcontroller
applications and project. Technical elective. Prerequisites: EECE 251, EECE
315, and CS 211 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 462 - Control Systems II 

State-space and frequency-domain methods for analysis and design of linear
multivariable control systems. Digital implementation of controllers.
Numerical simulation for performance evaluation of sampled-data control
systems. Applications to embedded systems. Technical elective. Prerequisite:
EECE 361 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 474 - Electro-Optics 

Electro-optic devices and systems. Blackbody, LED and laser sources,
photodetectors, modulators, fiber optics, Fourier optics. Design of electro-
optic systems. Technical elective. Prerequisite: EECE 323. Offered every other
fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 477 - Digital Communications 

Fundamentals of digital communication systems; baseband modulation and
demodulation; digital passband modulation and demodulation; channel coding,
error detection; spread spectrum; signal space representation; bit error rate.
Technical elective. Prerequisite: EECE 377 or equivalent. Offered every fall
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 480A - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 480B - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 480F - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 480G - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 486 - Senior Project I lab 

Faculty Advisor sections for ECE Senior Project I. Register after being
assigned your project. Co-requisite: EECE 487 . Offered every fall semester. 1
credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 487 - Senior Project I 

Design projects in cooperation with local industry, other external clients,
and university sponsored projects - outlining specifications, proposals, time
schedules, and paper designs. Periodic design reviews with client, written and
oral progress reports, final presentation. Evaluation based on individual and
team performance. Prerequisites: EECE 387 and senior standing. Co-requisite:
After being assigned your project, register for your Faculty Advisor's lab
section of EECE 486. Offered every fall semester. 2 credits. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 488 - Senior Project II 

Continuation of team development project using lightweight version of
industrial approach. Covers hardware and software builds, integration and
test, and project completion; scope, cost, and time. Individual assignments;
team written and oral progress reports, periodic reviews, integration and test
plans, system verification methods, project reports, and project
presentations. Evaluation based primarily on team performance. Prerequisites:
EECE 487 and senior standing. Co-requisite: Register for your Project
Advisor's lab section of EECE 489. Offered every spring semester. 2 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 489 - Senior Project II lab 

Faculty Advisor sections for ECE Senior Project II. Evaluation based primarily
on individual performance. Register for your Project Advisor's lab section.
Co-requisite: EECE 488. Offered every spring semester. 1 credit. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 491 - Teaching Practicum 

Assist with undergraduate instruction of a formal course under the direct
supervision of the course instructor. May count for one professional elective
but may not be used to satisfy a technical elective unless significant work is
done and always at the discretion of the Chair or Undergraduate Program
Director. Taken with normal (letter) grade option ONLY; NOT P/F or S/U.
Prerequisite: permission of course instructor. Offered every semester.
Variable credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 496 - Industrial Internship 

Engineering work experience in industry. Daily log book, memo progress reports
and formal final report required. May satisfy, at most, one professional
elective. Internships require course registration during the same term or
semester as the internship is being completed (e.g., internships completed
during the summer months would require summer registration). Taken with normal
(letter) grade option ONLY; NOT P/F or S/U. Prerequisite: permission of
faculty sponsor for internship. Offered every semester. Variable credit.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 497 - Independent Study 

Individual study under direct supervision of a faculty member. Approval of
proposed subject by the faculty member and plan of study must be obtained
prior to registration. Can be used to satisfy either a technical or
professional elective. If used to satisfy a technical or professional
elective, it must be taken with normal (letter) grade option ONLY; NOT P/F or
S/U. Offered every semester. Variable credit. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 499 - Undergraduate Research 

Assist with faculty research. Approval of proposed subject by the faculty
member and plan of research must be obtained prior to registration. Can be
used to satisfy either a technical or professional elective. If used to
satisfy a technical elective or professional elective, it must be taken with
normal (letter) grade option ONLY: NOT P/F or S/U. Offered every semester.
Variable credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 501 - Analog Circuit Design 

Introduction to analog circuit design. Course topics include large and small-
signal analysis, circuit characteristics (gain, input/output resistance,
etc.), amplifier structures, frequency/time response, feedback and stability,
multistage amplifiers and active filters. This course includes several
assignments requiring the use of software tools for circuit simulation and a
design project. Lecture portion meets with EECE 416. Extra assignments, and/or
final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 315.
Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 502 - Power Sysl: Equip & Power Flow 

The purpose of this course is to form a solid basis for analyzing power
systems. The course gives an overview of a power system and is focused on the
basic concepts and elements that are essential in power system planning,
operation and control. The course introduces modeling methods for major
components in a power system and the methods for solving power flow problems.
Specifically, the course addresses the following topics: an overview of power
system and structure of electric power industry; the 3 phase circuits in power
systems; steady state modeling of generators and transformers; transmission
line modeling; power flow analysis. Lecture portion meets with EECE 418\.
Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the graduate
level. Prerequisites: EECE 323, or approval of instructor. Offered every fall
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 503 - Electric Drives 

Fundamentals of electric drive systems with applications emphasis. The course
offers an integrative treatment of multiple components that make up electric
drives, including electrical machines, power-electronics-based converters,
mechanical systems, feedback controller design, and the interaction of the
drives with the utility grid. Lecture portion meets with EECE 421. Extra
assignments, and/or final project will be required at the graduate level.
Prerequisites: EECE 260, EECE 301 and EECE 323. Offered every spring semester.
3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 504 - Power Electronics 

Electronic processing of electrical energy. Overview of power electronics
devices such as DMOSFET, IGBT and Thyristor. Power supply circuits from AC or
DC sources as used in computers, inverters and variable-speed motor drives.
Analytical and numerical techniques for simulation. Lecture portion meets with
EECE 419. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the
graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 315 and 301. Offered every fall semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 505 - BioMEMS and Bioelectronics 

This course is meant to provide an overview of the field of bioMEMS and
bioelectronics. It will familiarize students with micro/nanofabrication
techniques, Lab-on-a-chip, microfluidics, various microfluidic components,
biofuel cells, drug delivery, neural interface, microsystems for cellular
studies and tissue engineering. The objective of this course is to link
engineering principles to biology, medicine, health, or bioenergy.
Prerequisites: EECE 332. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 506 - Mathematical Methods In EE 

Selected topics in the advanced engineering mathematics, with special focus on
their electrical engineering applications. Topics include ordinary and partial
differential equations, Laplace transform, Fourier transform, linear algebra,
matrix theory, numerical methods, complex analysis, optimization, probability
and statistics. Prerequisites: calculus and differential equations. Offered
every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 507 - Mathematical Methods In COE 

This course provides fundamental computer engineering knowledge for the design
and analysis of digital systems. Includes applications of Discrete Math;
Groups; Group Codes; Semi-groups; Synthesis of Networks; Reliable Design and
Fault Diagnosis; Graphs; and Finite State Machines. Prerequisites: EECE 351 or
equivalent and MATH 314 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 508 - Physics & Tech of Solar Cells 

This course focuses on the science and engineering fundamentals of
photovoltaic solar energy devices and systems. The lectures will cover solar
radiation, semiconductor properties, p-n junction theory, solar cell operating
principles, solar cell device designs and fabrication of traditional
crystalline silicon and thin film solar cells. Students will learn the
advanced concepts for high efficiency solar cells and emerging photovoltaic
devices like organic (plastic) solar cells and quantum solar cells. The course
covers solar module interconnections, engineering design of solar electricity
systems and power conditioning at systems level. Lecture portion meets with
EECE 432\. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the
graduate level. Prerequisites: EECE 332 or equivalent is desirable but not
essential. Offered every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 509 - Power SysII: Protect & Control 

The purpose of this course is to help students develop skills for analyzing
electric power systems beyond power flow solutions. The following topics are
covered: basics of economic dispatch; basics of fault analysis and fault
current calculations; generator transients induced by grid faults; basics of
power system protection; basics of stability concepts and stability analysis;
basics of load frequency control, automatic generation control, reactive power
and voltage control. Lecture portion meets with EECE 423. Extra assignments,
and/or final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisites:
EECE 502 or approval of instructor. Offered every spring semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 510 - Control Systems II 

State-space and frequency-domain methods for analysis and design of linear
multivariable control systems. Digital implementation of controllers.
Numerical simulation for performance evaluation of sampled-data control
systems. Applications to embedded systems. Lecture portion meets with EECE
462. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the graduate
level. Prerequisites: EECE 361 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 511 - Power Gen, Operation & Control 

The purpose of this course is to introduce and study a number of engineering
and economic problems in planning, operating and controlling power generation
and transmission systems in electric utilities. The course will also introduce
some mathematical optimization methods and apply them to solve power system
problems. Specifically, the course will address the following topics: Power
generation characteristics; Economic dispatch; Optimization with constraints;
Unit commitment; Generation with limited energy supply; Transmission system
effects; Power system security; Optimal power flow; Introduction of state
estimation. The course targets graduate students with power/energy
concentration. Prerequisites: EECE 418 or 502 or approval of instructor.
Offered every other spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 512 - Renewable Energy & Distributio 

Working principles and modeling of distribution grids, renewable energy
resources, grid-tie battery system, microgrid, as well as analysis of
integrated renewable energy systems. Prerequisites: EECE 418 and EECE 361, or
equivalent, or approval of instructor. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 513 - High Freq Pow Convers Emerg Ap 

This module deals extensively with the design of high frequency high
efficiency power electronic converters for AC-DC, DC-DC, and DC-AC, using
pulse width modulation (PWM) and resonant energy conversion techniques. This
module will make the student aware of the fundamental considerations needed to
design power electronic converters in an industrial environment and conforming
to different industrial standards especially in terms of electromagnetic
interference (EMI)/Efficiency/Line harmonics (AC-DC). Prerequisites: EECE 419
and EECE 506, or EECE 507 or equivalent. Offered in the Fall. 3 Credits
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 514 - Elect Energy Storage Sys& Appl 

: Introduction to various electrical energy storage technologies focusing on
supercapacitor and battery. Electrical design of storage systems and
performance analysis. Electric energy storage application in photovoltaic and
wind power based renewable energy systems. Modeling of electric energy storage
in power and electronic systems such as in power conversion, electric drives,
low power embedded systems and electrical traction. Broad impact of this
course will be in understanding efficient and effective use of electrical
energy in electronic, renewable energy and power conversion systems through
supercapacitor array and battery based electric energy storage. 3 credits.
Prerequisite: EECE315 (Electronics I), or equivalents, or approval of
Instructor Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 516 - Intro to Bioenergy 

This course provides an overview of the field of renewable energy and fuel,
made available from biologically derived materials with focus on its system
implementations. In particular, the course will focus on innovative systems
for bioelectricity, biofuel, biorefinery, and environmental applications. The
objective of this course is to link engineering principles to biology and
bioenergy. Prerequisites: EECE 315 or EECE 332 or approval of Instructor.
Offered every spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 518 - Data-Driven Methods forControl 

Applications of statistical, optimization and advanced control techniques for
analysis, mathematical description, optimization and control of multivariable
processes. Topics include regression analysis, linear, non-linear and dynamic
programming, adaptive control. Prerequisite: EECE 361 or equivalent. Offered
every other spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 519 - Control of Networked Systems 

Methods and tools for modeling, control, and performance analysis of
asynchronous systems driven by random events. Main topics include stochastic
processes, Markov chain models, queuing systems, simulation of event- and
time-driven systems, security and optimal control of networked systems as
controlled Markov chains. Prerequisites: A course in basic probability
(probability space; conditional probability; random variables; probability
mass and probability density functions; conditional distributions;
expectation, variance, and moment computation.) Offered every other fall
semester. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 520 - Digital Signal Processing I 

Covers the general area of discrete-time signals and the analysis and design
of discrete time systems. Topics include time domain analysis, solutions of
difference equations, Z-transform analysis, sampling of continuous-time
signals, discrete Fourier transforms, Fast Fourier Transforms, and spectral
analysis. Processing of discrete-time signals using the DFT and FFT. Design
and implementation of discrete-time filters. Extensive use of software
simulations in a high-level language such as Matlab. Lecture portion meets
with EECE 402. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the
graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 301. Offered every fall semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 521 - Digital Signal Processing II 

Advanced topics in digital signal processing. Bandpass signals and bandpass
sampling, multi-rate processing and filterbanks, random signals and spectrum
estimation, modern DSP applications. Prerequisites: EECE 402 or equivalent and
MATH 327 or ISE 261 or equivalent. Offered every spring semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 522 - Estimation Theory 

Theory and practice of estimating parameters for discrete-time signals
embedded in noise. Application to problems in radar, sonar, emitter location
and communication systems. Topics include: Cramer-Rao lower bound, minimum
variance unbiased estimation, least squares estimation, maximum likelihood
estimation, Bayesian estimation, and Wiener filtering. Prerequisites: EECE 402
or equivalent and ISE 261 or equivalent. Offered every other spring semester.
3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 523 - Data Compression 

Discusses the theory and practice of data compression of signals, images, and
video. Techniques covered include: Quantization, Vector Quantization,
Differential Schemes, Filterbanks and Subband Coding, Wavelet Transform, JPEG
2000 MPEG. Prerequisites: EECE 402 or equivalent and ISE 261 or equivalent.
Offered every other spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 525 - Digital Audio SignalProcessing 

This course covers the fundamentals of digital audio signal processing. Topics
include analog-to-digital converters and digital-to-analog converters, models
for characterizing and analyzing quantization errors in digital audio,
sampling rate conversion, design of filters and equalizers, algorithms for
simulating room acoustics, and algorithms for implementing digital audio
effects. Implementation of algorithms using Matlab is emphasized. 3 credits.
Prerequisites: EECE 301 Signals and Systems, ISE 261 Probabilistic Systems I;
or equivalents, or approval of instructor. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 527 - Information Theory 

An Introduction to information theory for signal processing and communications
theory. Entropy, mutual information, divergence, source coding, channel
capacity, hypothesis testing and types. Prerequisite: EECE 301 or equivalent
and ISE 261 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 529X - Machine Learning 

Provide a broad introduction to machine learning and its applications. We will
briefly review python programming, statistics, and linear algebra. Then,
fundamentals of machine learning will be introduced, with topics including
supervised learning (parametric/non-parametric algorithms, support vector
machines, kernels, neural networks), unsupervised learning (clustering,
dimensionality reduction, recommender systems), and fundamental theories
(bias/variance theory). ECE applications such as time sequence forecasting,
speech recognition, and image processing will be described. Offered Spring
2023 Credits: 3 Prerequisites: ISE 261 & MATH 324, permission from instructor.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 530 - Electro-Optics 

Electro-optic devices and systems. Black-body, LED and laser sources, photo
detectors, modulators, fiber optics, Fourier optics. Design of electro-optic
systems. Lecture portion meets with EECE 474. Extra assignments, and/or final
project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 323.
Offered every other fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 532 - Advanced Semiconductor Lasers 

Physics, device structure, and operation of semiconductor lasers. Band
structure in solids, optical processes in semiconductors, p-n junctions, and
quasi-Fermi levels; rate equation model for semiconductor lasers, static and
dynamic characteristics; characteristics of distributed feedback, Bragg
reflector, vertical cavity and Fabry-Perot lasers. Lecture portion meets with
EECE 433. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the
graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 332. Offered every third semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 534X - Implemn of Human Org-on-a-Chip 

This course introduces fundamentals of human organ-on-a-chip systems which
refer to biomedical MEMS (bioMEMS) devices containing miniaturized human
organs for drug screening, disease modeling and regenerative medicine. Topics
to be covered in this course will focus on applications of electrical
engineering principles combined with human cell culture techniques for the
design, fabrication and interrogation of organ chip models of brain, lung,
intestine and eye. The aims of the course include to: (i) study
microfabrication and MEMS technologies in the context of human organ-on-a-chip
implement and innovations; (ii) provide general background for in vitro cell
culture techniques; (iii) review electrical, optical, biological sensor
techniques for the analysis of organ-on-a-chip systems; and (iv) study the
exemplary applications of organ-on-a-chip technology in biomedical research
and medicine. This course also provides broad discussion on recent and future
trends in human organ-on-a-chip systems and bioMEMS technologies.
Prerequisites: EECE 332 or permission from instructor. Credits: 3 Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 535X - Quant Phys of Semiconduct Mat 

This course covers basic solid-state physics, quantum mechanics, and
semiconductor physics relevant for understanding semiconductor materials and
devices. The goal of this course is for you to learn the relationship between
basic science and engineering applications, and how to engineer materials at
the nanoscale to enable novel electronic and photonic properties.
Prerequisites: EECE 332 or permission from instructor Credits 3\. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 537X - Intro to Quantum Computing 

This course will introduce the basics of quantum computing, including the
theoretical physics background, mechanics of creation and manipulation of
physical qubits, the mathematical basis for qubit gates, and quantum computing
and algorithms. When Offered: Spring 2023 Credits: 3 Prerequisites: EECE 212
and/or permission from instructor. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 542 - Wireless Communication Systems 

Topics in wireless communications such as cellular radio, PCS and wireless
LAN. Cellular system design, frequency reuse, channel assignment, handoff,
power control, cell splitting, sectorization, system capacity. Radio
propagation, multi-path and fading, signal design principles, spread-spectrum
modulation techniques, receiver/transmitter architectures. Multiple access for
wireless systems: FDMA, TDMA, CDMA, SDMA. Wireless networking. Prerequisite:
EECE 377 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 545 - Digital Communications 

Fundamentals of information in digital communication systems; digital passband
modulation and demodulation; channel coding; error detection; spread spectrum;
signal space representation; bit error rate. Digital modem design and
implementation and final project. Lecture portion meets with EECE 477. Extra
assignments, and/or final project will be required at the graduate level.
Prerequisite: EECE 377 or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 552 - Computer Design 

This course will cover several topics in the area of computer architecture. We
will discuss various concepts behind the designs of current mircroprocessors.
In particular, the topics that will be covered in the course are: RISC
machines and instruction set architectures, performance evaluation, pipelined
architecture, static and dynamic scheduling, instruction-level parallelism,
advanced pipelining, speculative execution, memory hierarchy and organization,
multi-processing, compiler techniques (and more). Lecture portion meets with
EECE 452. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the
graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 351 or equivalent. Offered every fall
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 553 - Computer Network Architecture 

This is an introduction level computer network architecture course for
senior/graduate students. The goal is to provide the students with a
comprehensive picture of the technologies behind the Internet and applications
on top of it. Starting with a brief review of some basics of networking, we
will discuss from the lowest levels of packet transmissions through the
highest levels of application software under the umbrella of the TCP/IP
architecture. Emphasis will be given on the network architecture, components
and design principles. Lecture portion meets with EECE 453. Extra assignments,
and/or final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisites:
Basic knowledge of probability and statistics. Offered every fall semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 558 - Embedded Systems Design 

Microcontroller based embedded systems design and analysis. Bare metal
assembly and C software development for hardware and software integration.
Driver based hardware abstraction and input/output synchronization. Sensor
hardware integration, information extraction and fusion. Microcontroller
applications and project. Lecture portion meets with EECE 458. Extra
assignments, and/or final project will be required at the graduate level.
Prerequisites: EECE 351 or equivalent and CS 211. Offered every fall semester.
3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 559 - Software-Defined Radio 

This course explores and analyzes the individual elements required to design a
software-defined radio (SDR) receiver. Optimizations and tradeoffs are
discussed as the receiver elements are integrated together. For the final
project, the functional elements are integrated into a digital receiver system
and the performance of the receiver is assessed. Topics include: modulation
and demodulation, signal sampling, pulse shaping, bandwidth and data rate,
synchronization, linear equalization, coding and decoding, timing recovery,
and carrier recovery. Matlab is used to model the receiver elements and to
implement the final project. Lecture portion meets with EECE 414. Extra
assignments, and/or final project will be required at the graduate level.
Prerequisite: EECE 459 or EECE 377 or equivalent. Offered every spring
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 560 - Cryptography & Info Security 

Introduction to codes and ciphers, information security, and mathematical
basis of encryption. Cryptanalysis (code-breaking), modern block and stream
ciphers, public-key cryptography, protocols, security engineering and threat
management. Lecture portion meets with EECE 405. Extra assignments, and/or
final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisite:
Familiarity with a computer programming language is necessary to complete
assignments. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 562 - Fundamentals Of Steganography 

An introduction to the modern field of covert communication using digital
media. General principles of covert communications in digital images and
detection of hidden data in digital media files (statistical tests, signal
estimation). Steganographic security, capacity and detectability. Universal
blind steganayzers based on machine learning. Forensic steganalysis.
Prerequisites: Knowledge of MATLAB and basics of signal processing. Offered
every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 564 - Convex Optimization 

Convex sets, functions, and problems; basics of convex analysis; least-
squares, linear, quadratic, geometric, and semi-definite programs; duality
theory; numerical linear algebra and algorithms; MATLAB-based tools for convex
optimization; applications to in signal processing, networking, control,
circuit design, etc. Prerequisites: EECE 506 or working knowledge of linear
algebra, exposure to probability, and some familiarity with MATLAB, or
Instructor permission. Offered every third spring semester. 3 credits Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 566 - Detection Theory 

Course on statistical signal detection techniques and their applications in
digital forensics. Lectures are interleaved with hands-on projects to show the
students the usefulness of theoretical concepts introduced during lectures.
Students will become familiar with an important forensic method for digital
media that identifies digital cameras and manipulated images using the so-
called sensor fingerprint. From the technical point of view, the course
contains the following topics: Binary and multiple hypothesis testing, Neyman-
Pearson theorem, Bayesian risk minimization, likelihood ratio test. Detection
of deterministic signals and random signals, matched and generalized matched
filter. Gaussian and non-Gaussian noise. Detection of signals with unknown
parameters and unknown noise parameters, generalized likelihood ratio test,
universally most powerful test. Basics of parameter estimation theory. The
techniques will be demonstrated via hands-on projects drawn from the field of
digital forensics (digital watermarking and sensor fingerprints).
Prerequisite: Basic statistics. Offered every spring semester. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 567 - Cyber-Physical Sys Security 

Cyber-physical systems (CPS) represent a new class of systems that bring
together sensing, computation, communication and control to enable continuous
interactions with physical processes. Application areas are as diverse as
aerospace, civil infrastructure, energy, manufacturing, transportation most of
which are safety-critical. The availability of cheap communication
technologies such as the Internet, makes such infrastructures to susceptible
to cyber-threats. The goal of this class is to provide a unified overview of
CPS security issues, from the perspective of control, communication and game
theories, relating to various CPS including industrial control systems and
those considered critical infrastructure systems. It will also introduce
students to concepts in optimization, decentralized decision making in teams
and games, and the interconnections between information and decision making,
and networked control systems. Prerequisites: EECE 212, ISE 261, or approval
of instructor. Offered every other fall semester. 3 Credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 568 - Fund of Reinforcement Learning 

This course will provide an introduction to the field of reinforcement
learning (RL). The topics that will be covered (time permitting) include but
not limited to Markov Chains; MDPs; Value Functions; Policy Iteration and
Value Iteration; Monte Carlo Methods; Temporal Difference (TD) Learning;
(Linear) Function Approximation; SARSA; Q-Learning; TD(); Actor-Critic
Methods; Neural Networks, Backpropagation and Applications to RL; Other topics
(e.g., Multi-Agent RL, RL Theory; Deep Reinforcement Learning). This course
will emphasize on hands-on experiences, students are expected to become well
versed in key ideas and techniques for RL through a combination of lectures,
written and coding assignments. Students will advance their understanding and
the field of RL through a project. Prerequisites: Calculus and Linear Algebra;
Basic Probability and Statistics; Python. 3 credits. Offered in the Spring.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 570 - System On A Chip Design 

This course will provide an overview of the components of system on a chip
(SOC) design from initial technology and architectural choices, to
hardware/software design techniques (e.g., data/control flow modeling and
implementation, embedded cores and coprocessors, hardware/software
communication), as well as SOC implementation issues (e.g., performance, core
selection, on-chip communication networks, power management, package
constraints, and cost). Also covered are SOC design and implementation
processes (e.g., functional integration, simulation, clocking strategies,
timing, design for test, and debug strategies). Lecture portion meets with
EECE 438. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be required at the
graduate level. Prerequisites: EECE 315 and 287. Offered every spring
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 573 - Digital Systems Design II 

VLSI design, synthesis and test using hardware description language (HDL) at
the register-transfer level (RTL). HDL programming and simulation basics,
followed by advanced HDL programming for synthesis and test benching.
Principles of RTL synthesis introduced. Design and synthesis of digital
systems to meet constraints. Pre-synthesis and post-synthesis verification
using simulation. Commercial synthesis tool discussed in detail. Lecture
portion meets with EECE 451. Extra assignments, and/or final project will be
required at the graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 351 or equivalent. Offered
every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 574 - CMOS VLSI Circuits & Arch. 

The topics include the principles of MOSFET transistors, characteristics of
CMOS digital circuits, layout design and process, performance analysis of CMOS
gates, circuit design styles using MOSFET, performance, area and power
optimization of CMOS circuits. Commercial design and simulation tools will be
used in the class. Laboratory assignments include design, layout, extraction
and simulation.Lecture portion meets with EECE 455\. Extra assignments, and/or
final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 351
or equivalent. Offered every fall semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 575 - VLSI System Design 

Gate level and physical level design of a complex system, such as RISC
processor (including the ALU and memory) is discussed. Advanced topics in
logic-level design, such as high performance design, dynamic logic, low power
design, asynchronous logic, interconnect analysis, cross talk issues, bus
architecture, layout floor planning, and placement and routing, will be
covered. Students will be asked to use Cadence physical design, analysis, and
simulation tools. Prerequisite: EECE 574. Offered every spring semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 578 - Intro to Microfabrication 

Multidisciplinary Introduction to Microfabrication: Introduction to clean room
tools, procedures, and theory through the fabrication and characterization of
various devices from the fields of electrical engineering, mechanical
engineering, physics and chemistry. Fabrication of the devices will cover most
clean room tools and techniques, including lithography based patterning
methodologies; chemical vapor deposition; sputtering; thermal and e-beam
evaporation; thermal oxidation; reactive ion etching; ion implantation; and
wet chemical processing. The accompanying lecture will cover the theory of the
tools used. Lecture portion meets with EECE 431. Extra assignments, and/or
final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 332
or an equivalent course in basic semiconductor device physics. Offered every
spring semester. 4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of
Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 578X - Intro to Microfabrication 

Multidisciplinary Introduction to Microfabrication: Introduction to clean room
tools, procedures, and theory through the fabrication and characterization of
various devices from the fields of electrical engineering, mechanical
engineering, physics and chemistry. Fabrication of the devices will cover most
clean room tools and techniques, including lithography based patterning
methodologies; chemical vapor deposition; sputtering; thermal and e-beam
evaporation; thermal oxidation; reactive ion etching; ion implantation; and
wet chemical processing. The accompanying lecture will cover the theory of the
tools used. Lecture portion meets with EECE 431. Extra assignments, and/or
final project will be required at the graduate level. Prerequisite: EECE 332
or an equivalent course in basic semiconductor device physics. Offered every
spring semester. 4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of
Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580A - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580C - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580D - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580E - NeuralNetworks&DeepLearning 

In this course, we focus on the introduction of neural networks as well as
their applications in deep learning. Fundamentals of neural networks and deep
learning will be discussed, including multilayer perceptron, back-propagation
algorithm, regularization theory, convolutional neural networks, recurrent
neural networks, and reinforcement learning. After a brief overview of the
python programming language and statistical signal processing, neural networks
and their applications are followed. Application topics in speech recognition,
image and language processing will be described. A final project will let
students to work on the applications of deep learning or participate in online
deep learning competitions. Prerequisites: EECE301 or equivalent signals and
systems knowledge 3 credits, offered in the Fall Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 580F - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580G - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 580H - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580I - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580J - Special Topics 

This course will cover topics related to renewable energy generation (solar
photovoltaic cells), and storage (battery, supercapacitors and fuel cells)
devices. The main topics include organic and inorganic photovoltaics, super-
capacitors, and batteries. The course will also briefly discuss fuel cells and
their application in power generation and hydrogen production. The course will
emphasize the electronic and optical properties of the energy materials
together with the theoretical and experimental aspects of device design. In
addition, the course will also cover power system designs including PV cells
and batteries for both grid connectivity and stand-alone systems. Students
will also be asked to present a seminar on recent research reports published
in these fields. Prerequisites: ECE332 (Semiconductor Devices) or equivalent.
Offered in Spring. 3 Credits. Topics in electrical/computer engineering that
vary from year to year. If applicable, may be run every fall or spring
semester. 3 credits. See semester schedule for current offering. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580K - Quantum Mech Comp of Mat 

Quantum mechanical description of materials is important to understand
structure-property-performance relationships in materials science. Theoretical
computation is a power tool and complementary approach to experiments. This
course will firstly provide an overview of quantum mechanics and solid-state
physics that are important to the understanding of basic concepts underlying
the computational methods. We will then discuss practical implementations:
students will learn to run the actual first-principles computational code VASP
(https://www.vasp.at/) on supercomputers, interpret and present the results.
We will illustrate examples to show how computational methods can be used to
understand materials structures, defects, and functions for real-world
applications, including recent literature in renewable energy, electronics,
and quantum information. Credits 3 Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 580L - Implantable Bioelect Devices 

Implantable biomedical electronics is the application of engineering
principles to biology, medicine, and health. These novel devices have become
an important set of tools in medical technologies and widely employed for the
prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease in the human body, for patient
rehabilitation, and for improving health. In this course, we cover the
fundaments of implantable bioelectronic devices and integrated
microelectronics for biomedical and implantable systems. Some of topics
include prosthetic devices, neural interfaces, brain implants, implantable
biosensors, drug delivery systems and more. This course also provides in depth
discussion on human physiology and pathophysiology for understanding the
potential impact of this emerging technology on patient care and clinical
outcomes. Prerequisites: EECE315 “Electronics I” Offered in the Fall. 3
Credits. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 590X - Instructional Mat. Development 

Students will learn undergraduate instruction aspects of a formal course under
the direct supervision of a faculty member and perform substantial course
development work. This may include design of new lecture materials,
instructional techniques, assignments, and laboratory experiments combined
with presentations and/or laboratory supervision. Written documentation of
newly developed materials is submitted to the course instructor. May count for
one M.S. elective and must be taken with normal (letter) grade option ONLY. It
may also be used by Ph.D. students to satisfy the teaching proficiency
requirement. Prerequisites: Permission of course instructor. Offered in the
Fall and Spring. 3 Credits Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 592 - Tech. Dev. Curriculum I 

This course is a 32-week in-house course taught at BAE Systems for students
enrolled in the BAE ELDP program only and devoted to a broad review of
engineering fundamentals, with emphasis on interdisciplinary topics related to
Electronic Systems products and processes, technologies, applications, and
problem solving techniques. Coursework includes a team-project and
presentation to engineering management. Offered every spring semester. 6
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 593 - Tech. Dev. Curriculum II 

This course is a 16-week in-house course taught at BAE Systems for students
enrolled in the BAE ELDP program only and devoted to challenging students with
problems very similar to those frequently facing Electronic Systems engineers.
Coursework includes a technical project requiring the application of systems,
software, and hardware engineering skills. Offered every fall semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 594 - Industrial Internship 

Engineering work experience in industry. Daily logbook, memo progress reports,
and formal final report required. Signature of faculty advisor and graduate
director required prior to registration. Offered every semester. Variable
credit. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 597 - Independent Study 

Independent study or graduate laboratory exercises supervised by
electrical/computer engineering faculty member. Signature of instructor
required. Offered every semester. Variable credit. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * EECE 598 - Project/Pre-Thesis 

Hardware and software design and development or other project as defined by a
Learning Contract, approved by major professor and project advisor. Seminar
presentation required. Formal report submitted to the Project advisor.
Signature of advisor required prior to registration. Offered every semester.
Variable credit. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 599 - Thesis 

Mentoring in the methods of research. Theoretical analysis, computer modeling,
software and hardware development and experimentation as determined by a
Thesis Committee, faculty advisor, second reader or co-advisor and department
chair. Oral defense. Preparation of journal article required. Thesis submitted
to Graduate School electronically for the University Library. Signature of
advisor required prior to registration. Offered every semester. Variable
credit. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 613 - High Freq Pow Convers Emerg Ap 

This module deals extensively with the design of high frequency high
efficiency power electronic converters for AC-DC, DC-DC, and DC-AC, using
pulse width modulation (PWM) and resonant energy conversion techniques. This
module will make the student aware of the fundamental considerations needed to
design power electronic converters in an industrial environment and conforming
to different industrial standards especially in terms of electromagnetic
interference (EMI)/Efficiency/Line harmonics (AC-DC). Prerequisites: EECE 419,
and EECE 506 or EECE 507, or equivalent. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 657 - Network Security 

This is a research oriented class that will focus on the state of the art in
the network security area. The primary goal of the class is to expose students
to cutting edge research works and prepare them for carrying out research
independently. Topics include: Sources of Network Vulnerabilities; Overview of
Network Security Problems; Standard Internet Security Solutions; Internet
Infrastructure Protection; Security in Wireless Sensor Networks; Security
Architecture of Grid Computing; Trust, Security and Privacy in P2P/Pervasive
Computing Environments; Reconfigurable Hardware Implementation of Security
Solutions. Prerequisite: EECE 553 or equivalent. Offered every spring
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 680C - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 680D - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 680E - Special Topics 

Topics in electrical/computer engineering that vary from year to year. If
applicable, may be run every fall or spring semester. 3 credits. See semester
schedule for current offering. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 680F - Neural Network & Deep Learning 

In this course, we focus on the introduction of neural networks as well as
their applications in deep learning. Fundamentals of neural networks and deep
learning will be discussed, including multilayer perceptron, back-propagation
algorithm, regularization theory, convolutional neural networks, recurrent
neural networks, and reinforcement learning. After a brief overview of the
python programming language and statistical signal processing, neural networks
and their applications are followed. Application topics in speech recognition,
image and language processing will be described. A final project will let
students to work on the applications of deep learning or participate in online
deep learning competitions. Prerequisites: EECE301 and EECE506 or EECE507 or
equivalent or permission of instructor. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 697 - Independent Study 

Independent study supervised by electrical/computer engineering faculty
member. Student must obtain consent of instructor, who then determines
description of program and number of credits. Offered every semester. Variable
credit. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 698 - Pre Dissertation Research 

Exploratory research oriented toward PhD dissertation. Offered every semester.
Variable credit. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 699 - Dissertation Research 

Research for and preparation of PhD dissertation. Offered every semester.
Variable credit. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 700 - Continuous Registration 

Required to maintain matriculation through any spring or fall semester when no
other courses are taken. If the minimal one-credit registration is not
maintained, student must reapply for admission. Offered every semester.
Variable credit. Levels: Graduate

  * EECE 701 - Pract/Research &Teaching Asst 

May be used by all funded graduate assistants to obtain additional credits for
full-time status. Research or teaching supervised by faculty advisor. Offered
every semester. Variable credit. Levels: Graduate

[ Electrical and Computer Engineering ](/electrical-computer-engineering)

  * [ About ](/electrical-computer-engineering/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/electrical-computer-engineering/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/electrical-computer-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ Research ](/electrical-computer-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ People ](/electrical-computer-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/electrical-computer-engineering/give.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Felectrical-computer-engineering%2Fcourses-1.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Felectrical-computer-engineering%2Fcourses-1.html&text=Courses+%7C+Electrical+and+Computer+Engineering+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Felectrical-computer-engineering%2Fcourses-1.html&description=&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Felectrical-computer-engineering%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Felectrical-computer-engineering%2Fcourses-1.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Courses%20%7C%20Electrical%20and%20Computer%20Engineering%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/electrical-computer-engineering/courses-1.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 12/18/23
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/electrical-
computer-engineering/courses-1.pcf)

