Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Master of Science in Data Analytics ](/academics/programs/data-analytics)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Master of Science in Data Analytics ](/academics/programs/data-analytics)

[ Master of Science in Data Analytics ](/academics/programs/data-analytics)

  * [ About ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/about.html)
  * [ Curriculum ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/curriculum.html)
  * [ Admissions ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/admissions.html)
  * [ Faculty ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/faculty.html)
  * [ FAQ ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/faq.html)
  * [ Projects ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/projects/index.html)

#  Curriculum

##  Curriculum

The curriculum for Binghamton University's Master of Science in Data Analytics
program combines core courses, practicums with real-world projects and
electives from multiple fields of interest.

The highly quantitative nature of the **30-credit** curriculum, which takes
about **10 months** to complete, qualifies the program as a STEM degree.

##  Plan of study

On-campus students can complete the program in about 10 months, with classes
beginning during the fall semester and ending with the completion of summer
term I.

View Binghamton University's [ academic calendar here ](/academics/academic-
calendar.html) .

Students will be assigned a faculty academic advisor, and will be required to
meet with their advisor each semester to review progress in courses, field
placement and career goals.

###  Fall

Students will complete DATA 500 during the first two weeks of the fall
semester, while the other three courses will start in Week Three.

  * DATA 500 - Introduction to Data Analytics 

The course provides an overall introduction to the field of Data Analytics.
Since date analytics involves concepts in analytic methods, programming tools,
data retrieval and management, and applications in various domains, the course
will provide concepts in these areas along with assignments that will allow
students to learn how to make data-driven decisions. Ethical issues that shape
data science activity (such as security, privacy, governance) in human
contexts will also be covered. Credits: 3 Levels: Graduate

  * DATA 501 - Predictive&Inferentl Analytics 

Data-driven decision-making abilities have become increasingly important to
professionals and practitioners. This course aims to provide students with an
in-depth understanding of multiple linear regression analysis, model
diagnostics, model selection, logistic regression, analysis of variance
(ANOVA), and related topics. Levels: Graduate

  * DATA 502 - Machine Learning & Data Mining 

The challenge in analytics is to distill large amounts of data into useful
information that has relevance for managerial decisions. Machine learning and
data mining techniques provide solutions to this big data challenge. To
illustrate, some recent applications of machine learning and data mining
include (i) models to predict consumer preferences, (ii) models to detect
fraudulent credit card transactions, and (iii) prediction of diseases in the
medical diagnosis field. Students will learn how to apply these methods to
solve real world problems. credits: 3 Levels: Graduate

  * DATA 504 - Database & Lrg Data Repostries 

The focus of this course is on understanding information systems and
infrastructure used in Data Analytics. The course will provide an introduction
to elements of database design and database query languages. Students will
also gain technical understanding of and hands-on experience with the
information technology infrastructure required for data analytics. The first
part of the course focuses on traditional databases and structured data. It
covers association between data elements and data models (including entity-
relationship and relational models), relational database design techniques,
database query languages. Students will be exposed to the basics in query
processing, transaction management, and concurrency control. The second part
of the course covers non-relational databases and big data infrastructure.
Students compare and contrast as well as have hands-on experience with various
non-relational databases including document, graph, and column databases.
Students will also be exposed to Hadoop environment and basic services
available in this environment, distributed file systems, storage, and
processing. Levels: Graduate

###  Winter

  * DATA 580A - Communicating & Visualizing Data 

This course covers personal presentation skills as well as how to present and
communicate with data.

###  Spring

  * DATA 503: Applied Optimization and Decision Analytics 

Analytical models are key to understanding data, gaining insights into
systems, generating predictions, and making decisions. Three major parts of
analytical modeling are descriptive analytics (describe what happened),
predictive analytics (predict what will happen) and prescriptive analytics
(prescribe what should happen). In this course, we will discuss some modeling
techniques for predictive and prescriptive analytics. This course introduces
the students to the art of mathematical modeling of business and social
systems for making practical, data-driven decisions. The methods covered
include deterministic and stochastic optimization techniques, and simulation
modeling techniques to discover and analyze the risk and uncertainty.

  * DATA 510: Analytics Practicum I 

This course teaches data analytics within a problem-solving framework. In
doing so, students are provided a unique opportunity to apply the analytical
tools and concepts taught in the program in a practical manner. Students will
work on live projects from various organizations. Each project will have three
to five students assembled as a team. Each project involves a single "client"
organization, which may be a profit, non-profit or governmental organization.
Each client provides its assigned study team with a project of current
interest and an executive dedicated to working with the team. A faculty
advisor is assigned to each team. Several faculty advisors might participate,
depending on the expertise needed. Students schedule their own time,
dovetailing with client schedules and that of their faculty advisor. Students
(in consultation with the client and faculty advisor) will be responsible for
project scope, understanding the issues and analytic needs, identifying
appropriate analytical methods, analyzing the data, drawing conclusions,
making recommendations for decision-making, writing a report and presenting
conclusions/recommendations to the clients and to the advisor/instructor.

  * Elective  See more info on electives below. 
  * Elective  See more info on electives below. 

###  Summer Term I

  * DATA 511: Analytics Practicum II 

This course teaches data analytics within a problem-solving framework. In
doing so, students are provided a unique opportunity to apply the analytical
tools and concepts taught in the program in a practical manner. Students will
work on live projects from various organizations. Each project will have three
to five students assembled as a team. Each project involves a single "client"
organization, which may be a profit, non-profit or governmental organization.
Each client provides its assigned study team with a project of current
interest and an executive dedicated to working with the team. A faculty
advisor is assigned to each team. Several faculty advisors might participate,
depending on the expertise needed. Students schedule their own time,
dovetailing with client schedules and that of their faculty advisor. Students
(in consultation with the client and faculty advisor) will be responsible for
project scope, understanding the issues and analytic needs, identifying
appropriate analytical methods, analyzing the data, drawing conclusions,
making recommendations for decision-making, writing a report and presenting
conclusions/recommendations to the clients and to the advisor/instructor.

##  Coursework

The program involves six core courses, two practicums and electives.

###  Core courses

The core courses ensure students have a confident grasp on the most relevant
and important topics and concepts in data analytics, including regression,
machine learning and data mining, modeling, databases and large data
repositories.

###  Practicums

The two practicums involve team-based data analytics projects in collaboration
with real-world organizations. This ensures that students understand the
material through the framework of problem-solving, allowing them to put their
knowledge and skills to the test through hands-on projects. [ Learn more about
projects at this link ](/academics/programs/data-
analytics/projects/index.html) .

###  Electives

Electives are rooted in todayâ€™s most pressing data analysis topics. Our
students help drive the direction of the curriculum. As the program
progresses, students work together to decide which electives will be taught,
choosing from a number of options.

##  Part-time students

The MS Data Analytics program offers a course sequence for part-time students
that can be completed in two years. This allows flexibility to students who
want to continue working full-time jobs while pursuing their degree.

Because the program is held in-person on the Binghamton campus, part-time
students are required to attend in-person. Please note that most MS Data
Analytics courses take place during the daytime, so students will need to have
permission from their employer to allow time-off for courses and course-
related activities such as group meetings.

###  Part-time course sequence

**Year 1**

  * **Fall:** DATA 500, DATA 501 
  * **Winter:** DATA 580A 
  * **Spring:** DATA 503, Elective 1 

**Year 2**

  * **Fall:** DATA 502, DATA 504 
  * **Spring:** Practicum 1, Elective 2 
  * **Summer:** Practicum 2 

To learn more about our part-time option, email [ msda@binghamton.edu
](mailto:msda@binghamton.edu) .

[ Master of Science in Data Analytics ](/academics/programs/data-analytics)

  * [ About ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/about.html)
  * [ Curriculum ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/curriculum.html)
  * [ Admissions ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/admissions.html)
  * [ Faculty ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/faculty.html)
  * [ FAQ ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/faq.html)
  * [ Projects ](/academics/programs/data-analytics/projects/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Facademics%2Fprograms%2Fdata-analytics%2Fcurriculum.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Facademics%2Fprograms%2Fdata-analytics%2Fcurriculum.html&text=Curriculum+%7C+Master+of+Science+in+Data+Analytics+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Facademics%2Fprograms%2Fdata-analytics%2Fcurriculum.html&description=The+30+credit+curriculum+of+Binghamton+University%27s+Master+of+Science+in+Data+Analytics%0Agraduate+degree+program+combines+core+courses%2C+diverse+electives+and+real-world+projects.&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Facademics%2Fprograms%2Fdata-analytics%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Fstats-ipad.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Facademics%2Fprograms%2Fdata-analytics%2Fcurriculum.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Curriculum%20%7C%20Master%20of%20Science%20in%20Data%20Analytics%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/academics/programs/data-analytics/curriculum.html)

Â© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/academics/programs/data-
analytics/curriculum.pcf)

