Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/biomedical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/biomedical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ Research ](/biomedical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ People ](/biomedical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/biomedical-engineering/alumni/index.html)
  * [ News ](/biomedical-engineering/news.html)
  * [ Give ](https://advance.binghamton.edu/s/1796/interior-giving.aspx?sid=1796&gid=2&pgid=427&cid=1081&bledit=1&dids=83)
  * [ Forms ](/biomedical-engineering/forms.html)
  * [ Contact Us ](/biomedical-engineering/contact-us.html)

#  Department of Biomedical Engineering

##  What UV dosage kills COVID?

Research from Distinguished Professor Kaiming Ye and Associate Professor Guy
German offers the first scientific proof of what intensity and duration of
ultraviolet light kills coronavirus.

[ READ MORE ](/news/story/3616/new-study-proves-correct-dosage-for-
ultraviolet-disinfection-against-covid)

##  News

[ More News ](/biomedical-engineering/news.html)

##  Biomed Opportunities

The biomedical engineering job market is rapidly growing as advances in the
bioengineering and biomedical sciences are improving healthcare.

There are numerous opportunities for graduates with the specialized training
offered at Binghamton University.

[ Learn More ](/biomedical-engineering/about/jobs-internships.html) **Open
Positions:**

[ PREP Postdoc Opportunity-Decision Science
](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14u_KvSs6PEmDJXp-Y0F27CYJwpz_p8Ib/view?usp=sharing)

[ PREP Research Associate - Digital Image Processing for Measuring Solar Panel
Degradation ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/138VmsaLd9HTEcO2-2PFFdS-
HdhK8OhTL/view?usp=sharing)

##  **Questions about BME?**

  * **[ Michelle Beavers ](mailto:mbeavers@binghamton.edu?subject=) , ** Undergraduate Program Coordinator: 607-777-5483 
  * **[ Kathleen Feczko ](mailto:kfeczko@binghamton.edu?subject=) ** , Graduate Program Coordinator: 607-777-5779 

##  Accelerate your education

A combined bachelor of science (BS) and master of science (MS) in biomedical
engineering is available for motivated students working toward their BS in
biomedical engineering.

[ Explore 4+1 program ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)

##  Undergraduate Programs

A biomedical engineering degree from Binghamton University prepares students
for leadership positions in the biomedical industry, academy, business,
education, entrepreneurship and for success in a global environment.

[ Pre-Med ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html) [ Biomedical
Engineering (BS) ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html) [ 4+1
Biomedical Engineering (BS/MS) ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html) [
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING HONORS PROGRAM ](/biomedical-
engineering/undergraduate/biomedicalhonors.html) [ BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
MINOR ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/bmeminor.html)

##  Graduate Programs

The goal of the BME graduate program is to prepare students for careers in
industry, academia or research lab environments by offering a flexible program
of coursework and mentoring that enables students to engage in creative and
independent research on a cutting-edge research topic.

[ Biomedical Engineering (MS, PhD) ](/biomedical-
engineering/graduate/index.html)

##  Our Community and Network

Our alumni are working in different industries across the globe, but they
undoubtedly have a few things in common: passion, purpose and pride in their
education from the Biomedical Engineering Department.

![Xue Liu](/biomedical-engineering/img/xue-liu.png)

###  Xue Liu,  PhD  '17

###  _Postdoctoral Fellow_ , NIH/National Center for Advancing Translational
Sciences

![Joseph Perez-Rogers](/biomedical-engineering/img/joseph-perezrogers.jpg)

###  Joseph Perez-Rogers  '12

###  _Product Manager_ , GNS Healthcare

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/biomedical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/biomedical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ Research ](/biomedical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ People ](/biomedical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/biomedical-engineering/alumni/index.html)
  * [ News ](/biomedical-engineering/news.html)
  * [ Give ](https://advance.binghamton.edu/s/1796/interior-giving.aspx?sid=1796&gid=2&pgid=427&cid=1081&bledit=1&dids=83)
  * [ Forms ](/biomedical-engineering/forms.html)
  * [ Contact Us ](/biomedical-engineering/contact-us.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Findex.html&text=Department+of+Biomedical+Engineering+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Findex.html&description=Department+of+Biomedical+Engineering&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fassets%2Fimg%2Ficon-og.png)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Department%20of%20Biomedical%20Engineering%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/biomedical-engineering/index.html)

Â© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/biomedical-
engineering/index.pcf)

