Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
    * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
      * [ Who We Are ](/watson/student-services/advising/who-we-are.html)
      * [ Major Requirements and Guidesheets ](/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/index.html "Major Requirements and Guidesheets")
      * [ F.A.Q. and Common Referrals ](/watson/student-services/advising/faq-referrals.html)
      * [ Academic Policies ](/watson/student-services/advising/academic-progress.html "Academic Policies")
      * [ Class Schedules ](https://ssb.cc.binghamton.edu/banner/bwckschd.p_disp_dyn_sched)
      * [ FERPA ](/watson/student-services/advising/ferpa.html)
      * [ GPA Calculator ](/watson/student-services/advising/gpa-calculator.html "GPA Calculator")
      * [ Graduate Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html)
      * [ Graduate Student Forms ](/watson/student-services/advising/grad-forms.html)
      * [ Transfer and Exam Equivalencies ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer-and-exam-equivalencies.html "Transfer and Exam Equivalencies")
      * [ Transfer Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer.html)
      * [ Undergraduate Information ](/watson/student-services/advising/undergraduate.html "Undergraduate Information")
    * [ Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html)
    * [ International Partnerships ](/watson/student-services/international-partnerships/index.html)
    * [ Commencement speakers ](/watson/student-services/commencement-speaker.html)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

#  EE COURSE GUIDESHEET 2023-24

[ PRINTER-FRIENDLY VERSION OF THE GUIDESHEET ](/watson/student-
services/advising/undergrad-forms/ee-2023.pdf)

These suggested course tracks are based on undergraduate requirements from the
class entering in the 2023-24 academic year. These are only suggestions, refer
to the [ University Academic Guide ](https://catalog.binghamton.edu) for the
official requirements for each major.

For archived requirements refer to the [ University Academic Guide Archives
](https://catalog.binghamton.edu) . Select the desired year, then click Link
to Resource under the heading View Online.

For more information on [ graduate-level requirements go here
](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html) .

Take note of Pre- or Co-requisites.

Our curriculum is excellent preparation for graduate studies. For qualified
undergraduates, we offer a five-year program that leads to both a BS and an MS
degree in computer engineering or a BS in computer engineering and a master of
business administration. [ More >> ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)

####  Year 1

Engineering Design Division: The first year is common to all engineering
majors.

**Fall**

  * EDD 111 - Intro to Engineering Design 

First course in a two-semester integrated introduction to the engineering
profession. Emphasizes engineering problem-solving techniques; introduction to
the engineering design process. Includes an introduction to machine shop use,
engineering graphics, circuits, and computer-aided design. This course is
assessed a $235 fee upon registration. Fees are refundable only within the
first week of classes for students that withdraw and non-refundable
thereafter. Corequisite: EDD 103 (linked). Course is offered in the Fall
semester. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 103 - Engineering Communications I 

Develops student's critical thinking skills through the completion of two
team-based projects. Emphasis is on teaming skills, critical reading,
technical writing, oral presentation skills, project management and
professionalism. A technical report and two professional presentations are
required. Corequisite: EDD 111 (linked). Offered in the Fall semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 111 - Chemical Principles 

A one-semester introductory course in modern chemistry for potential science
and engineering majors. Covers molecular structure and bonding, solids,
organic chemistry and polymers, acid/base and redox chemistry, thermodynamics,
electrochemistry and kinetics in both lecture and laboratory. Fulfills all
requirements met by CHEM 107-108.Credits: 4\. Format: 3 hour lecture; 2 hour
discussion; 3 hour laboratory per week. Prerequisite: high school chemistry.
Not open to students who have credit for CHEM 107 or CHEM 108 or CHEM 104 or
CHEM 105 or CHEM 106. If taken as a part of a pre-health track an additional
semester of inorganic chemistry must be taken to fulfill the requirement.
Offered in the fall semesters only. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule
of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * MATH 225 - Integral Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in integral calculus covering optimization and
integration. Prerequisites: MATH 224 with a grade of C- or better. Offered 2nd
half of fall semester and both half semesters of spring semester. 2 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 225 - Integral Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in integral calculus covering optimization and
integration. Prerequisites: MATH 224 with a grade of C- or better. Offered 2nd
half of fall semester and both half semesters of spring semester. 2 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)  
Physical Activity/Wellness (Y, S, B)

**Spring**

  * EDD 104 - Engineering Communications II 

This class builds on the skills introduced in EDD 103. Critical reading,
engineering research, and writing through a Conceptual team-based project is
emphasized. Two formal presentations, two research papers using APA
documentation style and a technical report are required. Prerequisite: EDD
103, EDD 111. Corequisite: EDD 112 (Linked). Offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 112 - Intro to Engineering Analysis 

The conclusion of a two-semester introduction to the practice of engineering.
Content is primarily focused on the application of mathematics in engineering.
Content is reinforced in the EDD 104 engineering design projects. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: EDD 103, EDD 111.
Corequisite: EDD 104 (linked). Course is offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 131 - Gen. Physics I(Calculus Based) 

A calculus based introduction to the basic concepts underlying physical
phenomena, including kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, forces found in
nature, rotational motion, angular momentum, simple harmonic motion, fluids,
thermodynamics and kinetic theory. Lectures, discussion, demonstration, and
laboratory. Pre or Co-requisites: high school trigonometry and algebra; AP
calculus or MATH 224/225. Offered spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * MATH 226 - Integration Tech & Application 

This is a 2-credit course covering the calculus of transcendental & inverse
functions, L’Hospital’s Rule, integral techniques, improper integrals,
calculus of parametric curves, and polar coordinates. Prerequisites: Math 225
with a grade of at least a C- or consent of instructor. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 227 - Infinite Series 

This is a 2-credit course covering sequences, series, power series, and Taylor
series. Prerequisites: Math 226 with a grade of at least a C- or consent of
instructor. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)  
Physical Activity/Wellness (Y, S, B)

####  Year 2

**Fall**

  * EECE 251 - Digital Logic Design 

Fundamental and advanced concepts of digital logic. Boolean algebra and
functions. Design and implementation of combinational and sequential logic,
minimization techniques, number representation, and basic binary arithmetic.
Logic families and digital integrated circuits and use of CAD tools for logic
design. Laboratory exercises. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits. Course
fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 281 - EECE Seminar I 

Overview of the fields of electrical engineering and computer engineering.
Various sub-fields within EE and CoE are explored, with emphasis on how they
are interrelated. Issues relevant to careers in EE and CoE (e.g., typical
tasks done by EEs and CoEs) are explored. Offered every fall semester. 1
credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CS 211 - Programming I Engineers 

Introduction to computer programming with engineering applications.
Programming in the procedural language C, control structures, functions,
arrays and pointers. Introduction to abstract data types and object-oriented
programming using C++. This course is intended for Engineering Students. Not
applicable toward a major or minor in computer science. Offered in the Fall
semester. 4 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 324 - ODE's for Scientists/Engineers 

Introduction to ordinary differential equations. Topics include first order
equations (separable, linear, homogeneous, exact, substitutions); linear
second order equations (method of undetermined coefficients, variation of
parameters); applications (oscillations and resonance, circuits); Laplace
transform; power series solutions. Only one of MATH 324 and MATH 371 can be
counted towards Math minor. Prerequisites: C- or better in MATH 227 or MATH
230. Every semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 132 - Gen.Physics II(Calculus Based) 

Fundamentals of electricity, magnetism, light, wave motion and relativity.
Lectures, discussion, demonstration and laboratory. Prerequisite: PHYS 131.
Pre or Corequisite: MATH 226/227. Offered fall semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

**Spring**

  * EECE 212 - Linear Algebra&Eng Programming 

An introduction to linear algebra for engineers with computer analysis,
visualization, and mathematical programming. Linear algebra topics include
matrix operations, systems of linear equations, determinants, solution to
matrix equations, vector space, eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Introduction to
engineering programming includes variables and arrays, matrix operation,
functions, data representation, user defined functions and a brief
introduction on graphical programming. Engineering applications such as the
matrix representation of graphs, matrices applied to electric circuits and
linear systems will be introduced during the class. Laboratory exercises.
Prerequisite: Calculus I. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * EECE 260 - Electric Circuits 

Units and definitions. Ohm's Law and Kirchhoff's Laws. Analysis of resistive
circuits. Circuit analysis using: Nodal and mesh methods, Norton and Thevenin
theorems, and voltage divider. Transient and sinusoidal steady-state response
of circuits containing resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Laboratory
exercises. Prerequisite: PHYS 132. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 287 - Sophomore Design 

Design-based introduction to embedded computer systems. Organization and
composition of computer processors, memory, and peripherals. Introduction to
assembly-language and embedded C programming. Design of hardware and software
for embedded processor applications. Laboratory exercises and design projects.
Prerequisites: CS 211 and EECE 251. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ISE 261 - Probabilistic Systems I 

This course provides an introduction to probability models and statistical
methods most likely to be encountered and used by students in their careers in
engineering and the natural sciences. This introduction will emphasize, from
the outset, that variation is the source from which all statistical
methodology flows. Discussion includes the practical aspects of data
collection and descriptive statistics with an introduction to the basic
concepts of probability theory and probability distributions, correlation,
point estimation, confidence intervals, and test of hypothesis. Prerequisites:
Math 227 and EDD 112 or permission of instructor. Offered in the Spring
semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

####  Year 3

**Fall**

  * EECE 301 - Signals And Systems 

Provides an introduction to continuous-time and discrete-time signals and
linear systems. Topics covered include time-domain descriptions (differential
and difference equations, convolution) and frequency-domain descriptions
(Fourier series and transforms, transfer function, frequency response, Z
transforms and Laplace transforms). Prerequisites: EECE 212 and 260 and MATH
324. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 315 - Electronics I 

Introduction to electronics, concentrating on the fundamental devices (diode,
transistor, operational amplifier, logic gate) and their basic applications;
modeling techniques; elementary circuit design based on devices. Laboratory
exercises. Prerequisites: EECE 260. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 332 - Semiconductor Devices 

Basic theory of semiconductors, p-n junctions, bipolar junction transistors,
junction and MOS field effect devices; device design and modeling; and
fabrication. Prerequisite: PHYS 132. Corequisite: EECE 315. Offered every fall
semester. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 382 - EECE Seminar II 

Provides an overview of the professional aspects of the fields of electrical
engineering and computer engineering. Topics to be covered include: typical
career paths in EECE, engineering ethics, resume writing and job search
techniques, preparing for graduate school, professional engineer license, etc.
Offered every fall semester. 1 credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 323 - Calculus III 

Calculus of functions of several variables. Prerequisites: C- or better in
MATH 227 or MATH 230, or consent of instructor. Every semester. 4 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

**Spring**

  * EECE 323 - Electromagnetics 

Physics and applications of electromagnetic fields as encapsulated in the
vector form of Maxwell's equations. Static electrical and magnetic fields,
time-varying electromagnetic fields, Poisson's equations, fundamental laws of
electromagnetic fields (including Gauss's law, Ampere's law, Faraday's law,
and Biot-Savart's law), time-harmonic fields, wave propagation, and
transmission lines. Numerical techniques. Prerequisites: EECE 260 and MATH
323. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 361 - Control Systems 

"Introduction to analysis, design and modeling of control systems. Fourier and
Laplace transforms, frequency response, transfer functions static and
transient analysis. Systems block diagrams and signal-flow graphs. Concepts of
stability. Numerical simulation and design of simple control systems.
Introduction of discrete-time control. Prerequisite: EECE 301. Offered every
spring semester. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 377 - Communications Systems 

Fundamentals of communications systems. Modulation and demodulation methods.
Characteristics of modern analog and digital communications methods.
Prerequisites: EECE 301 and ISE 261\. Offered every spring semester. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EECE 387 - Design Lab 

This course provides experience with the engineering design process, which
spans significant areas of electrical and computer engineering. Lecture will
focus on various aspects of the design process as well as discussions of
component characteristics. EE student prerequisites: EECE 301 and EECE 315.
CoE student prerequisites: EECE 315 and EECE 351. Offered every spring
semester. 4 credits. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. .
Levels: Undergraduate

Professional Elective I

####  Year 4

**Fall**

  * EECE 487 - Senior Project I 

Design projects in cooperation with local industry, other external clients,
and university sponsored projects - outlining specifications, proposals, time
schedules, and paper designs. Periodic design reviews with client, written and
oral progress reports, final presentation. Evaluation based on individual and
team performance. Prerequisites: EECE 387 and senior standing. Co-requisite:
After being assigned your project, register for your Faculty Advisor's lab
section of EECE 486. Offered every fall semester. 2 credits. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 486 - Senior Project I lab 

Faculty Advisor sections for ECE Senior Project I. Register after being
assigned your project. Co-requisite: EECE 487 . Offered every fall semester. 1
credit. Levels: Undergraduate

Technical Elective I  
General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)  
General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)

**Spring**

  * EECE 488 - Senior Project II 

Continuation of team development project using lightweight version of
industrial approach. Covers hardware and software builds, integration and
test, and project completion; scope, cost, and time. Individual assignments;
team written and oral progress reports, periodic reviews, integration and test
plans, system verification methods, project reports, and project
presentations. Evaluation based primarily on team performance. Prerequisites:
EECE 487 and senior standing. Co-requisite: Register for your Project
Advisor's lab section of EECE 489. Offered every spring semester. 2 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 489 - Senior Project II lab 

Faculty Advisor sections for ECE Senior Project II. Evaluation based primarily
on individual performance. Register for your Project Advisor's lab section.
Co-requisite: EECE 488. Offered every spring semester. 1 credit. Levels:
Undergraduate

Technical Elective II  
Professional Elective II  
General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
    * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
      * [ Who We Are ](/watson/student-services/advising/who-we-are.html)
      * [ Major Requirements and Guidesheets ](/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/index.html "Major Requirements and Guidesheets")
      * [ F.A.Q. and Common Referrals ](/watson/student-services/advising/faq-referrals.html)
      * [ Academic Policies ](/watson/student-services/advising/academic-progress.html "Academic Policies")
      * [ Class Schedules ](https://ssb.cc.binghamton.edu/banner/bwckschd.p_disp_dyn_sched)
      * [ FERPA ](/watson/student-services/advising/ferpa.html)
      * [ GPA Calculator ](/watson/student-services/advising/gpa-calculator.html "GPA Calculator")
      * [ Graduate Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html)
      * [ Graduate Student Forms ](/watson/student-services/advising/grad-forms.html)
      * [ Transfer and Exam Equivalencies ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer-and-exam-equivalencies.html "Transfer and Exam Equivalencies")
      * [ Transfer Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer.html)
      * [ Undergraduate Information ](/watson/student-services/advising/undergraduate.html "Undergraduate Information")
    * [ Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html)
    * [ International Partnerships ](/watson/student-services/international-partnerships/index.html)
    * [ Commencement speakers ](/watson/student-services/commencement-speaker.html)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fee23.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fee23.html&text=EE+COURSE+GUIDESHEET+2023-24+%7C+Thomas+J.+Watson+College+of+Engineering+and+Applied%0AScience+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fee23.html&description=&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fee23.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=EE%20COURSE%20GUIDESHEET%202023-24%20%7C%20Thomas%20J.%20Watson%20College%20of%20Engineering%20and%20Applied%0AScience%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/ee23.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/21/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/watson/student-
services/advising/requirements/ee23.pcf)

