Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
    * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
      * [ Who We Are ](/watson/student-services/advising/who-we-are.html)
      * [ Major Requirements and Guidesheets ](/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/index.html "Major Requirements and Guidesheets")
      * [ F.A.Q. and Common Referrals ](/watson/student-services/advising/faq-referrals.html)
      * [ Academic Policies ](/watson/student-services/advising/academic-progress.html "Academic Policies")
      * [ Class Schedules ](https://ssb.cc.binghamton.edu/banner/bwckschd.p_disp_dyn_sched)
      * [ FERPA ](/watson/student-services/advising/ferpa.html)
      * [ GPA Calculator ](/watson/student-services/advising/gpa-calculator.html "GPA Calculator")
      * [ Graduate Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html)
      * [ Graduate Student Forms ](/watson/student-services/advising/grad-forms.html)
      * [ Transfer and Exam Equivalencies ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer-and-exam-equivalencies.html "Transfer and Exam Equivalencies")
      * [ Transfer Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer.html)
      * [ Undergraduate Information ](/watson/student-services/advising/undergraduate.html "Undergraduate Information")
    * [ Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html)
    * [ International Partnerships ](/watson/student-services/international-partnerships/index.html)
    * [ Commencement speakers ](/watson/student-services/commencement-speaker.html)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

#  ME GUIDESHEET 2023-24

[ PRINTER-FRIENDLY VERSION OF THE GUIDESHEET ](/watson/student-
services/advising/undergrad-forms/me-2023.pdf)

These suggested course tracks are based on undergraduate requirements from the
class entering in the 2023-24 academic year. These are only suggestions, refer
to the [ University Academic Guide ](https://catalog.binghamton.edu) for the
official requirements for each major.

For archived requirements refer to the [ University Academic Guide Archives
](https://catalog.binghamton.edu) . Select the desired year, then click Link
to Resource under the heading View Online.

For more information on [ graduate-level requirements go here
](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html) .

Take note of Pre- or Co-requisites.

**4 + 1 Master's Programs**

Complete a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in five years by taking up
to three graduate course in your senior (fourth) year. In your fifth year, you
are admitted to the Graduate School and focus solely on graduate work to
finish your master's degree.

Click [ here ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html "4+1 Information") to find
out more about the benefits of the programs and how to apply.

####  Year 1

Engineering Design Division: The first year is common to all engineering
majors.

**Fall**

  * EDD 103 - Engineering Communications I 

Develops student's critical thinking skills through the completion of two
team-based projects. Emphasis is on teaming skills, critical reading,
technical writing, oral presentation skills, project management and
professionalism. A technical report and two professional presentations are
required. Corequisite: EDD 111 (linked). Offered in the Fall semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 111 - Intro to Engineering Design 

First course in a two-semester integrated introduction to the engineering
profession. Emphasizes engineering problem-solving techniques; introduction to
the engineering design process. Includes an introduction to machine shop use,
engineering graphics, circuits, and computer-aided design. This course is
assessed a $235 fee upon registration. Fees are refundable only within the
first week of classes for students that withdraw and non-refundable
thereafter. Corequisite: EDD 103 (linked). Course is offered in the Fall
semester. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 111 - Chemical Principles 

A one-semester introductory course in modern chemistry for potential science
and engineering majors. Covers molecular structure and bonding, solids,
organic chemistry and polymers, acid/base and redox chemistry, thermodynamics,
electrochemistry and kinetics in both lecture and laboratory. Fulfills all
requirements met by CHEM 107-108.Credits: 4\. Format: 3 hour lecture; 2 hour
discussion; 3 hour laboratory per week. Prerequisite: high school chemistry.
Not open to students who have credit for CHEM 107 or CHEM 108 or CHEM 104 or
CHEM 105 or CHEM 106. If taken as a part of a pre-health track an additional
semester of inorganic chemistry must be taken to fulfill the requirement.
Offered in the fall semesters only. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule
of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * MATH 224 - Differential Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in differential calculus covering limits,
continuity, and differentiation. Prerequisites: MATH 223 with a grade of C- or
better, or Placement Exam. Offered each half semester. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 225 - Integral Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in integral calculus covering optimization and
integration. Prerequisites: MATH 224 with a grade of C- or better. Offered 2nd
half of fall semester and both half semesters of spring semester. 2 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)

**Spring**

  * EDD 104 - Engineering Communications II 

This class builds on the skills introduced in EDD 103. Critical reading,
engineering research, and writing through a Conceptual team-based project is
emphasized. Two formal presentations, two research papers using APA
documentation style and a technical report are required. Prerequisite: EDD
103, EDD 111. Corequisite: EDD 112 (Linked). Offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 112 - Intro to Engineering Analysis 

The conclusion of a two-semester introduction to the practice of engineering.
Content is primarily focused on the application of mathematics in engineering.
Content is reinforced in the EDD 104 engineering design projects. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: EDD 103, EDD 111.
Corequisite: EDD 104 (linked). Course is offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 226 - Integration Tech & Application 

This is a 2-credit course covering the calculus of transcendental & inverse
functions, L’Hospital’s Rule, integral techniques, improper integrals,
calculus of parametric curves, and polar coordinates. Prerequisites: Math 225
with a grade of at least a C- or consent of instructor. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 227 - Infinite Series 

This is a 2-credit course covering sequences, series, power series, and Taylor
series. Prerequisites: Math 226 with a grade of at least a C- or consent of
instructor. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 131 - Gen. Physics I(Calculus Based) 

A calculus based introduction to the basic concepts underlying physical
phenomena, including kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, forces found in
nature, rotational motion, angular momentum, simple harmonic motion, fluids,
thermodynamics and kinetic theory. Lectures, discussion, demonstration, and
laboratory. Pre or Co-requisites: high school trigonometry and algebra; AP
calculus or MATH 224/225. Offered spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)

####  Year 2 - Foundational Math, Science, and Engineering Courses

**Fall**

  * ME 212 - ME Programming 

Structured programming for mechanical engineers. Engineering programming with
MATLAB. Prerequisite: EDD 112 or a beginning programming course. Offered in
the Fall semester, Winter and Summer sessions. 2 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 273 - Statics 

Equilibrium of particles and rigid bodies, equivalent force system, free-body
diagrams, centroid of areas, mass moment of inertia, truss analysis, friction.
Must be completed with a grade of C- or better to satisfy ME program
requirements. Prerequisite: PHYS 131\. Offered in the Fall and Spring
semesters and the Summer session. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * MATH 323 - Calculus III 

Calculus of functions of several variables. Prerequisites: C- or better in
MATH 227 or MATH 230, or consent of instructor. Every semester. 4 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 132 - Gen.Physics II(Calculus Based) 

Fundamentals of electricity, magnetism, light, wave motion and relativity.
Lectures, discussion, demonstration and laboratory. Prerequisite: PHYS 131.
Pre or Corequisite: MATH 226/227. Offered fall semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

General Education Elective (G, D, A, N, H)

ME 273 must be completed with a C- or better to satisfy prerequisites.

**Spring**

  * MATH 324 - ODE's for Scientists/Engineers 

Introduction to ordinary differential equations. Topics include first order
equations (separable, linear, homogeneous, exact, substitutions); linear
second order equations (method of undetermined coefficients, variation of
parameters); applications (oscillations and resonance, circuits); Laplace
transform; power series solutions. Only one of MATH 324 and MATH 371 can be
counted towards Math minor. Prerequisites: C- or better in MATH 227 or MATH
230. Every semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 211 - Intro to Solid Mechanics 

Basic principles of stress and strain of structural members subject to axial,
shearing, bending, torsion and combined loads. Mechanical properties of
engineering materials. Shear and moment diagrams. Deflection of beams. Must be
completed with a grade of C- or better to satisfy ME program requirements.
Prerequisite: ME 273 with a grade of C- or better. Offered in the Spring
semester and the Summer session. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 274 - Dynamics 

Kinematics and kinetics of particles; kinematics and kinetics of rigid bodies
(plane motion). Energy and momentum methods. Must be completed with a grade of
C- or better to satisfy ME program requirements. Prerequisite: ME 273 with a
grade of C- or better. Offered in the Spring semester and the Summer session.
3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 260 - Electric Circuits 

Units and definitions. Ohm's Law and Kirchhoff's Laws. Analysis of resistive
circuits. Circuit analysis using: Nodal and mesh methods, Norton and Thevenin
theorems, and voltage divider. Transient and sinusoidal steady-state response
of circuits containing resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Laboratory
exercises. Prerequisite: PHYS 132. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

Body/Wellness

ME 211 & 274 must be completed with a C- or better to satisfy prerequisites.

####  Years 3 and 4 - Advanced Mechanical Engineering Core Courses

  * ME 302 - Engineering Analysis 

Methods employed in engineering problem solving. Case studies drawn from
engineering disciplines used to apply the mathematical techniques.
Prerequisites: MATH 323 and MATH 324. Offered in the Fall semester. 3 credits
Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 303 - Eng Computational Methods 

Application of computational methods to solve engineering and scientific
problems. Topics covered include numerical methods (curve fitting, solution of
linear and nonlinear equations, integration, ordinary and partial differential
equations), graphical visualization and statistical analysis using MATLAB.
Prerequisites: ME 212 and ME 302. Offered in the Spring semester and the
Summer session. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 331 - Thermodynamics 

Properties of pure substances. Concepts of work and heat, fundamental laws of
thermodynamics; closed and open systems. Entropy and entropy production. Basic
gas and vapor cycles, basic refrigeration cycles. Prerequisites: PHYS 131.
Offered in the Fall semester and in the Summer session. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 351 - Fluid Mechanics 

Hydrostatics, kinematics, pipe flow, momentum and energy relations. Bernoulli
equation. Real fluid phenomena, laminar and turbulent motion, boundary layer,
lift and drag. Prerequisites: ME 274 with a grade of C- or better and ME 302.
Offered in the Spring semester and in the Summer session. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 362 - Science of Engr. Materials 

Introduction to the structures and structure-related properties of engineering
materials: metals, ceramics, and polymers. Physical properties of matter.
Prerequisites: CHEM 111 and PHYS 132, Prerequisite that can be taken
concurrently: ME 363. Offered in the Fall semester. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 363 - Engineering Materials Lab 

Laboratory course to accompany ME 362, Science of Engineering Materials.
Prerequisite that can be taken concurrently: ME 362. Offered in the Fall
semester. 1 credit Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 381 - Computer Aided Engr 

Fundamentals of computer-aided design, modeling, analysis and optimization.
Introduction to finite element method and use of standard packages for design
problems. Mechanism simulation. Includes laboratory section. Prerequisite: ME
211 with a grade of C- or better, Prerequisite that can be taken concurrently:
ME 212. Offered in the Fall semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 391 - Measmnt & Instrumentation 

Modular laboratory course in which the topics of thermodynamics, fluids, heat
transfer, vibrations, and solid mechanics are the subjects for the
experimental modules. Includes laboratory. Prerequisite: ME 211 with a grade
of C- or better, ME 212, and EECE 260. Offered in the Fall and the Spring
semesters. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 392 - Mechanical Engineering Design 

Application of fundamental principles of mechanics and strength of materials
to mechanical engineering design problems. Topics include fatigue, stress
concentrations, and failure theories. Decision making and engineering judgment
for open-ended problems are emphasized. Prerequisites: ME 362 and ME 381.
Offered in the Spring semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 421 - Mechanical Vibrations 

Free vibration of mechanical systems, damping, forced harmonic vibration,
support motion, vibration isolation, response due to arbitrary excitation,
systems with multiple degrees of freedom, normal modes, free and forced
vibrations, vibration absorber, application of matrix methods, numerical
techniques, computer applications. Prerequisites: ME 274 with a grade of C- or
better and ME 302. Offered in the Spring semester and the summer session. 3
credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 424 - Control Sys in Mechanical Engr 

Introduction to classical and modern control systems as they relate to
mechanical engineering. Modeling, analysis and design of control systems.
State space techniques are introduced. Prerequisite: ME 303, Prerequisite that
can be taken concurrently: ME 421. Offered in the Fall semester and the summer
session. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 441 - Heat Transfer 

Introduction to fundamentals of heat transfer. Topics in conduction, forced
and free convection, mixed modes (e.g., extended surfaces), heat exchangers,
radiation. Development and use of analytic and empirical expressions in terms
of dimensionless parameters. Prerequisites: ME 331 and ME 351. Offered in the
Fall semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 491 - Mechanical Engineering Lab 

Conduct experiments in the core areas of mechanical engineering. There will be
lectures and online modules to provide background and theory to accompany the
experiments that cover complex mechanical systems. Topics will include
controls, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and dynamical
systems. The course will also involve report writing and team building.
Prerequisite: ME 391. Prerequisites that can be taken concurrently: ME 421, ME
424 and ME 441. Offered in the Fall and Spring semesters. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 493 - Senior Project I 

Group project emphasizing definition and planning for solution of an
industrial problem. Achievement of prototype or interim design in preparation
for final design or product/process realization in ME 494. Course fee applies.
Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: ME 392. Prerequisites that can
be taken concurrently: ME 421, ME 424 and ME 441. Co-requisite: ME 498.
Offered in the Fall semester. 2 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 498 - Senior Project I lab 

Project work with ME 493. Corequisite: ME 493. Offered in the Fall semester. 1
credit Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 494 - Senior Project II 

Coordination of group project with unique industrial problem. Analysis,
design, experimentation may be brought to bear on solution. Realization of
results from final design of product or process with critical evaluation by
judging panel. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes.
Prerequisite: ME 391 and ME 493. Corequisite: ME 499. Offered in the Spring
semester. 2 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 499 - Senior Project II lab 

Project work with ME 494. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of
Classes. Corequisite: ME 494. Offered in the Spring semester. 1 credit Levels:
Undergraduate

ME 331 Thermodynamics can be taken in Year 2

ME 381, ME 391, ME 424, ME 491, ME 493, and ME 498 have some prerequistes that
can be taken concurrently

####  Years 3 and 4 - General Education, Technical & Mechanical Engineering
Electives

  * 2 additional General Education electives (G, D, A, N, H) – 4 credits each 
  * 2 Technical Electives – minimum 3 credits each 
  * 2 Mechanical Engineering electives (400-level or above, non-required courses) – 3 credits each 

Please see the [ ME Tech Elective Requirements
](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zGdtv1ssi9GugsKEY8vxXIJZmTc0oSMR/view
"Technical Elective Requirements") document.

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
    * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
      * [ Who We Are ](/watson/student-services/advising/who-we-are.html)
      * [ Major Requirements and Guidesheets ](/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/index.html "Major Requirements and Guidesheets")
      * [ F.A.Q. and Common Referrals ](/watson/student-services/advising/faq-referrals.html)
      * [ Academic Policies ](/watson/student-services/advising/academic-progress.html "Academic Policies")
      * [ Class Schedules ](https://ssb.cc.binghamton.edu/banner/bwckschd.p_disp_dyn_sched)
      * [ FERPA ](/watson/student-services/advising/ferpa.html)
      * [ GPA Calculator ](/watson/student-services/advising/gpa-calculator.html "GPA Calculator")
      * [ Graduate Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html)
      * [ Graduate Student Forms ](/watson/student-services/advising/grad-forms.html)
      * [ Transfer and Exam Equivalencies ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer-and-exam-equivalencies.html "Transfer and Exam Equivalencies")
      * [ Transfer Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer.html)
      * [ Undergraduate Information ](/watson/student-services/advising/undergraduate.html "Undergraduate Information")
    * [ Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html)
    * [ International Partnerships ](/watson/student-services/international-partnerships/index.html)
    * [ Commencement speakers ](/watson/student-services/commencement-speaker.html)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fme23.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fme23.html&text=ME+GUIDESHEET+2023-24+%7C+Thomas+J.+Watson+College+of+Engineering+and+Applied+Science%0A%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fme23.html&description=&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fme23.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=ME%20GUIDESHEET%202023-24%20%7C%20Thomas%20J.%20Watson%20College%20of%20Engineering%20and%20Applied%20Science%0A%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/me23.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/21/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/watson/student-
services/advising/requirements/me23.pcf)

