Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

[ __ apply  ](/grad-school/admissions/apply/)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

  * [ About ](/computer-science/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/computer-science/undergraduate-programs/)
  * [ Graduate ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/)
    * [ MS in Computer Science ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/index.html)
      * [ Artificial Intelligence Track ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-aitrack.html)
      * [ Cybersecurity Track ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-cybersecurity.html)
      * [ Other Areas of Focus ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-areasoffocus.html)
    * [ MS in Information Systems ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/msis/index.html)
    * [ PhD Program ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/phd-program.html)
    * [ Advanced Certificate in Cybersecurity ](/watson/graduate/cybersecurity-certificate.html)
    * [ CyberCorps Scholarship for Service ](/computer-science/about/scholarship-for-service.html)
  * [ People ](/computer-science/people/)
  * [ Research ](/computer-science/research/index.html)
  * [ Student Resources ](/computer-science/student-resources/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/computer-science/contact.html)
  * [ Give ](/computer-science/give.html)

#  MS in Computer Science

The Master of Science in Computer Science program is intended for students
with a strong background in computer science and a desire to prepare for
research studies or professional practice. Prospective students must complete
a baccalaureate degree in computer science or a closely related field with
courses in algorithms and data structures, computer organization and
architecture, operating systems, programming languages and discrete
mathematics.

* * *

##  Curriculum

All MSCS students must complete 31 credits of computer science graduate
courses as outlined below. Students can elect to complete a track in [
artificial intelligence ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-
aitrack.html) or [ cybersecurity ](/computer-science/graduate-
programs/mscs/ms-cybersecurity.html) .

The following requirements take effect for the Fall 2024 Catalog Year.

###  **Core courses**

Complete the following three core courses (total of 9 credits). It is
recommended that students complete the three core courses in the first two
semesters.

  * CS 551 - Systems Programming 

A detailed study of the application program interface of a modern operating
system. File operations, concurrency, processes, threads, inter-process
communication, synchronization, client-server programming, multi-tier
programming. Prerequisite: Undergraduate Operating Systems. Term offered
varies. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CS 571 - Programming Languages 

Selected topics in programming languages and alternative programming
paradigms. Functional and imperative languages. Logic programming and object-
oriented programming paradigms. Languages for concurrent computation.
Semantics of programming languages. Prerequisite: Undergraduate Algorithims.
Offered every semester when possible. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * CS 575 - Design & Analysis Comp Algorit 

Analysis of programs and review of design techniques. Lower bound theory and
NP-completeness. Heuristic, approximation, probabilistic and parallel
algorithms. Prerequisites: Undergraduate Algorithms. Offered every semester
when possible. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

###  **Project/thesis option**

Complete courses for either the project or thesis option (total of 22
credits).

  * **Project Option:** Seven electives approved by the student’s faculty advisor (making a total of ten courses) and a 1-credit project the student develops and presents. 
  * **Thesis Option:** Six electives approved by the student’s faculty advisor (making a total of nine courses) and a 4-credit thesis the student writes and defends. 

###  Elective courses

Students may choose electives from the list below. One chosen elective must
involve the design and implementation of large programs. Electives matching
this description are marked with an asterisk.

  * CS 515 *Social Media Data Science Pipeline 
  * CS 517 Human Computer Interaction 
  * CS 520 *Computer Architecture & Organization 
  * CS 524 Intelligent Mobile Robotics 
  * CS 526 Internet of Things 
  * CS 527 Mobile Systems Security 
  * CS 528 *Computer Networks and Data Communications 
  * CS 532 Database Systems 
  * CS 533 *Information Retrieval 
  * CS 535 Introduction to Data Mining 
  * CS 536 Introduction to Machine Learning 
  * CS 540 *Advanced Topics in Object-Oriented Programming 
  * CS 541 *Game Development for Mobile Platforms 
  * CS 542 *Design Patterns 
  * CS 544 *Programming for the Web 
  * CS 545 Software Engineering 
  * CS 547 *High Performance Computing 
  * CS 550 Operating Systems 
  * CS 552 Introduction to Cloud Computing 
  * CS 553X Software Security 
  * CS 555 *Introduction to Visual Information Processing 
  * CS 556 Introduction to Computer Vision 
  * CS 557 *Introduction to Distributed Systems 
  * CS 558 Introduction to Computer Security (must complete the project option*) 
  * CS 559 Science of Cyber Security 
  * CS 560 *Computer Graphics 
  * CS 561 Topics in Data Privacy 
  * CS 565 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence 
  * CS 572 *Compiler Design 
  * CS 576 Programming Models for Emerging Platforms (must complete the project option*) 
  * CS 601 Research Methodology 
  * Any Special Topics course CS 580A-CS 580Z (when offered) 
  * Any CS 600-level 3-credit course below CS 690 (when offered) 

Elective courses may be taken from other departments in Watson College or from
other schools within the University, subject to approval by the graduate
director of the School of Computing.

##  Student Testimonial

Saket Chinchalikar discusses why he chose Binghamton University to pursue his
MS in computer science.

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

  * [ About ](/computer-science/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/computer-science/undergraduate-programs/)
  * [ Graduate ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/)
    * [ MS in Computer Science ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/index.html)
      * [ Artificial Intelligence Track ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-aitrack.html)
      * [ Cybersecurity Track ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-cybersecurity.html)
      * [ Other Areas of Focus ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/ms-areasoffocus.html)
    * [ MS in Information Systems ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/msis/index.html)
    * [ PhD Program ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/phd-program.html)
    * [ Advanced Certificate in Cybersecurity ](/watson/graduate/cybersecurity-certificate.html)
    * [ CyberCorps Scholarship for Service ](/computer-science/about/scholarship-for-service.html)
  * [ People ](/computer-science/people/)
  * [ Research ](/computer-science/research/index.html)
  * [ Student Resources ](/computer-science/student-resources/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/computer-science/contact.html)
  * [ Give ](/computer-science/give.html)

###  Request More Info

Send Me More Info

We'd love to send you some more info about the CS Graduate program at
Binghamton. Simply fill out the form below.

Loading...

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Fgraduate-programs%2Fmscs%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Fgraduate-programs%2Fmscs%2Findex.html&text=MS+in+Computer+Science+%7C+School+of+Computing+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Fgraduate-programs%2Fmscs%2Findex.html&description=Binghamton+University%E2%80%99s+master%E2%80%99s+in+computer+science+prepares+students+for+research%0Aor+professional+practice.+&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu+%2Fcomputer-science%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Fcs-student-4.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Fgraduate-programs%2Fmscs%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=MS%20in%20Computer%20Science%20%7C%20School%20of%20Computing%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/index.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/computer-science/contact.html) [ __
visit  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/computer-
science/graduate-programs/mscs/index.pcf)

