Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

  * [ Academics ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
    * [ First year ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/freshman/)
    * [ Transfer ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/transfer/)
    * [ International ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/international/)
    * [ Current / Returning / Non-Degree ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/)
    * [ Check Your Status ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/status.html)
  * [ Cost & Aid ](/admissions/undergraduate/cost/)
  * [ Life ](/admissions/undergraduate/life/)
  * [ Visit ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ Contact ](/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)

#  School of Management Intra-University Transfer (IUT) or Double Degree (DD)

We welcome your application for internal transfer or double degree to the
School of Management.

Note: Internal transfer is extremely competitive to the programs in SOM.

###  Application process

Applications for IUT or DD admission must be submitted online via BU BRAIN by:

  * November 15 for spring admission 
  * March 15 for fall admission 

Decisions are emailed to the student's Binghamton BMail address.

Priority is given to candidates who have demonstrated very strong academic
performance, with particular consideration of performance in the four pre-
requisite courses identified on this page. Recently admitted students had an
average GPA of 3.7.

Attend an SOM IUT information session to review criteria and preparation
needed for admission. Decisions are emailed to the student's BMail address.

Late applications will be considered on a space-available basis. Admission
decisions are made after current semester grades are available.

If admitted, your student record will be updated. If your plans have changed
and you do not want to accept your IUT or Double Degree, you must notify the
Admissions Office within 5 days of your decision to avoid registration
problems.

###  Admission requirements

Transfer students who have completed only one semester at Binghamton at the
time of the IUT application must have earned at least a 3.3 here for
consideration.

Recently, most admitted students had at least 57 credits with an average of a
3.7 GPA, but there is no GPA cutoff for admission or denial. Any written
statements about your circumstances will be carefully reviewed.

Credits earned through Advanced Placement Program courses (score of a 3 or
higher), International Baccalaureate Higher Level exams (grade of 4 or higher)
and all external college courses including Project Advance (SUPA) or similar
courses completed with a grade of a 'C' or better will define your class
standing (e.g., first year, sophomore, junior, senior).  
  
In addition to these requirements, international applicants must also meet the
English proficiency requirement for students entering the School of
Management.

Pre-requisite courses

By the end of the semester in which you submit your applicaition, it is
recommended to have completed:

  * Microeconomics 
  * Macroeconomics 
  * Calculus or statistics 
  * Grades of A or B are necessary for each of those courses. Additional courses can be selected which are similar to those required of all SOM majors. Computer skills are essential and students without strong skills should take an intro to computing course with a focus on Excel early. 

###  Academic questions?

Before completing the online application via BU BRAIN, direct your questions
concerning course selection, transfer credit or other academic issues to the [
School of Management Academic Advising Office ](/som/student-
resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/ "SOM Academic Advising") .

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

  * [ Academics ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
    * [ First year ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/freshman/)
    * [ Transfer ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/transfer/)
    * [ International ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/international/)
    * [ Current / Returning / Non-Degree ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/)
    * [ Check Your Status ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/status.html)
  * [ Cost & Aid ](/admissions/undergraduate/cost/)
  * [ Life ](/admissions/undergraduate/life/)
  * [ Visit ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ Contact ](/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)

##  Contact

School of Management  
Academic Advising  
Academic A, Room 142  
Email: [ somadvis@binghamton.edu
](mailto:somadvis@binghamton.edu?subject=IUT%2FDD%20inquiry)

  
  

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-som.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-som.html&text=School+of+Management+Intra-University+Transfer+%28IUT%29+or+Double+Degree+%28DD%29+%7C+Undergraduate%0AAdmissions+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-som.html&description=Information+for+current+Binghamton+University+students+applying+to+transfer+into+the%0ASchool+of+Management+or+earn+a+double+degree&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2F20130926_stuwalkhqstock067_fjg.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-som.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=School%20of%20Management%20Intra-University%20Transfer%20%28IUT%29%20or%20Double%20Degree%20%28DD%29%20%7C%20Undergraduate%0AAdmissions%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/iut-som.html)

Â© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)
[ __ visit  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/iut-
som.pcf)

