Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/biomedical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
    * [ Courses ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/courses.html)
    * [ BME Minor ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/bmeminor.html)
    * [ BME Honors Program ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/biomedicalhonors.html)
    * [ Biomedical Engineering Society ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/bmes.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/biomedical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ Research ](/biomedical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ People ](/biomedical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/biomedical-engineering/alumni/index.html)
  * [ News ](/biomedical-engineering/news.html)
  * [ Give ](https://advance.binghamton.edu/s/1796/interior-giving.aspx?sid=1796&gid=2&pgid=427&cid=1081&bledit=1&dids=83)
  * [ Forms ](/biomedical-engineering/forms.html)
  * [ Contact Us ](/biomedical-engineering/contact-us.html)

#  Undergraduate Courses

####  Current Course Offerings

  * BME 201 - Intro to Biomedical Eng 

"This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduate
students. It covers topics such as recombinant DNA technologies, cell and
tissue engineering, stem cell and organ regeneration, 3D tissue and organ
printing, the design of tissue engineered products, biomaterial and tissue
scaffolding, drug delivery, biomechanics, bioinstrumentation, engineering of
immunity, and bio and medical imaging, etc. The application of nano-
biotechnology in developing clinical products such as tissue engineered
products, drug delivery systems, etc. will be emphasized in the course.
Prerequisite: PHYS 131, Math 225. Co-requisite BIOL 113. Fall semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 203 - Biomed Modeling Numerical Meth 

This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. It
covers topics such as error propagation, linear and non-linear models of
biological behavior, iterative solutions to systems of equations, finite
difference methods, numerical interpolation and integration, dynamical
biomedical systems modeling, ordinary and partial differential equations.
Prerequisite: Math 226 , BME 201 . Spring semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 213 - Biomolecular Engineering 

This course introduces engineering principles applied to processes involving
recombinant protein production. It illustrates the development of tools and
technologies of molecular biology and their application in protein
engineering. The engineering aspects of quantitative bioprocess analysis is
particularly emphasized in this course. Topics include bioprocessing,
recombinant DNA technologies, material balances, mass transfer, bioreaction,
and bioreactor engineering. Prerequisites: BME 201, CHEM 111, BIOL 113, MATH
324 or 371. 3 credit hours. Spring semester. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 295 - BU Science Internship 

The course provides academic credit for BU science participants. BU Science is
a campus organization that teaches weekly, 30 minute science, technology,
engineering, and math (STEM) modules at local elementary schools. This is a
program designed to advance the education of and encourage K-12 students into
STEM fields as well as provide public speaking and teaching experience to BU
participants. 1 credit. Fall/Spring semesters. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 303 - Bio-fluid Mechanics 

This course is a core course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. This
course introduces students to basic understanding and analysis of macro and
microscopic phenomena of fluid mechanics with special emphasis on applications
of fluid mechanics to biomedical systems. Fluid flows in biomedical systems
mediate the transport of energy, mass and momentum, which is essential to the
function of living systems. Perturbations in these processes often underlie
disease development. Course topics expand from from the basic properties of
fluids, the physics of fluid flow, to cardiovascular fluid mechanics,
pulmonary gas exchange, and renal blood flow and sodium transport.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 , MATH 227, BME 318. 3 credit hours. Spring semester.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 313 - Biomaterials 

This is an introductory biomaterials course for biomedical engineering
undergraduate students. The course covers the primary biomaterial types
including metals, ceramics, polymers, carbons, and composites as well as their
uses in biomedical devices and implants. The application of these materials in
tissue engineering, drug delivery, orthopedic implants, ophthalmologic
devices, and cardiovascular devices will be particularly discussed. The
biological response to implanted materials is emphasized in the course in
terms of inflammation, immunity, infection, and toxicity. The regulatory
biomedical device approval process is introduced as a natural extension of
biocompatibility testing. Prerequisites: BIOL 113, CHEM 231 , BME 213 Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 318 - Biomechanics 

This course introduces students to concepts of engineering mechanics required
to understand the structure and movement of biological systems. This course
will deal primarily with explaining biomechanics from a continuum mechanics
perspective. The course covers topics such as concepts of tensorial stress and
strain, constitutive equations, mechanical properties of biosolid materials,
viscoelasticity, torsion, and bending. The course also introduces topics
specifically relevant to biological materials such as anisotropy,
heterogeneity and failure mechanics. In addition to exploring fundamental
engineering mechanics, this course will also enable students to apply these
engineering principles to relevant real world biomedical problems.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 , MATH 227. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 324 - Biomedical Instruments 

This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. It
covers topics such as bioelectric signals, biomedical electronics, biomedical
electrodes and sensors, instrumentation in diagnostic cardiology,
extracorporeal devices, Instrumentation in blood circulation, and new
technologies and advances in medical instrumentation. The course includes
weekly labs to demonstrate the principles learned in class. The labs cover
biosignal recording (finger pulse, ECG, EEG, and EMG), nerve conduction study,
Wheatstone bridge circuit, and Op-Amp and filter circuits. Prerequisites: BME
201, BME 203, BME 213, PHYS 132. Fall semester. 4 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 330 - Biothermodynamics 

This course introduces the fundamental principles of thermodynamics and its
applications on biomolecules and systems in life science. Topics covered
include energy and its transformation, the first law and second laws of
thermodynamics, the Gibbs free energy, statistical thermodynamics, binding
equilibria, and reaction kinetics. Each topic has been organized to be highly
relevant to biology and biochemistry in living organisms. Lecture 3 hours per
week. Prerequisite: MATH 323, MATH 324, PHYS 131. Course offered in the Fall..
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 340 - Bioinformatics & Biostatistics 

This course introduces students to Biostatistics and Bioinformatics. The
course covers the basic methods utilized to statistically analyze and present
biological data using R programming language. Current tools, databases, and
technologies in bioinformatics are discussed in this course. Topics include
random variables and probability distributions, hypothesis testing and
statistical inference, ANOVA, sequence alignment and database searching, DNA
sequencing, and BLAST. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , BME 203 . Spring Semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 351 - Biomedical Engineering Lab 

This is a lab-based, complimentary course for biomedical engineering junior
undergraduate students pertaining to principles of biomaterials, biomechanics,
biomolecular engineering, and biofluidics. This lab course is designed to
cover biomaterials, biomechanics, biomolecular engineering, and biofluidic
mechanics in order to formulate and solve problems in biomedical systems
including experimental design, performance, and analysis. Course fee applies.
Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisites: BME 213 , BME 324, BME 318 .
Co-requisite: BME 303. Spring Semester. 1 credit hour. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 413 - Biomedical Transport Phenomena 

This course combines both fundamental engineering with physics and life
sciences principles to provide focused coverage of key momentum and mass
transport phenomena relevant to biomedical engineering. This course covers
topics including thermodynamics, the physical principles of body fluids and
cell membranes, molecular motors, cellular mechanics, solute and oxygen
transport, pharmokinetic transport and extracorporeal devices such as blood
oxygenators, hemodialysis and enzyme reactors. The course will also explore
the design of modern day bioartifical organs. The goal of the lecture course
is to emphasize the chemical and physical transport phenomena essential for
biological life and the design and development of contemporary biomedical
devices relevant to transport. Prerequisites: BME 303, BME 318, BME 330. Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 420 - Biomed Devices & Diagnostics 

This is an advanced course for biomedical engineering undergraduates and
beginning graduate students. The course covers studies of significant medical
devices with a discussion of appropriate physiology, system design,
biocompatibility issues, and clinical need. Details on technological function
and administration of diagnosis and/or therapy are covered along with standard
requirements from organizations. Prerequisites: BME 324 and BME 351, Fall
semester, Lecture 3 credit hours per week. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 424 - Bioimaging 

This is an introduction to biomedical imaging systems for biomedical
engineering senior undergraduate students and graduate students. The course
covers biomedical imaging with an emphasis on fundamental principles and
applications of each modern imaging modality including X-ray radiography,
computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine (SPECT and PET), magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI), and ultrasound. Lecture 3 hours per week. Prerequisite: BME
324. 3 Credit hours. Spring semester. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 428 - Biophotonics&Image Processing 

Description: It covers advanced topics in biophotonics, including physical
optics, tissue optics, and digital image acquisition and formats. Additional
topics include modern optical imaging technologies, Raman spectroscopy, super-
resolution microscopy, optogenetics, photoacoustic tomography, photodynamic
therapy, and live-cell imaging microscopy. The course will also cover
fundamentals and methods for digital image processing, featuring applications
in biological and medical diagnosis. Students are required to have basic
skills in MATLAB programming. In addition, the course will include a
discussion of bias and unfairness that unintentionally generated in imaging
processing and discuss best practices on how to identify and overcome them. 3
credits. Spring semester. Prerequisites: BME 324 and BME 351 Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 432 - Ethics in Engineering 

Our goal on offering this course is to bring contextual understanding of the
fundamental relationships between professional responsibility and damage
wrought by natural disasters. We have chosen Hurricane Katrina, as it is still
very relevant today yet sufficient time has passed such that careful analysis
of the storm and its aftermath is underway. While the course focuses upon the
profession of engineering, it is equally as relevant for students entering a
vast array of professions. We seek to move students understanding of the
tragic occurrence of disasters such as Hurricane Katrina from a purely
analytical one to an understanding that can begin to lead to empathy and
ultimately compassion. For it is our belief that such compassion can and will
lead to more enlightened, courageous future leaders willing to act in the face
of imminent threat whatever professions our students decide to pursue. Co-
requisite: BME 450. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 433 - Human Physiology 

An introduction to the major organ systems of the body with an emphasis on
regulatory processes and interactions with other systems. The course provides
students with a basic understanding of the prevalent theories of physiology
and pathophysiology and the application of these theories to health concerns
relevant to biomedical engineering. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , CHEM 231 . Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 442 - Nanotechnology & Drug Delivery 

The course introduces basics concepts of nanobiotechnologies, including
mathematical description of controlled release, and targeted and passive drug
delivery. Different types of drug delivery nanotechnologies, including lipid-,
polymer-, hydrogel-, and virus-based delivery systems and their application in
disease treatments are also covered in this course. Undergraduate
Prerequisite: BME213, MATH 324 . Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 443 - Quantitative Instr Bioanalysis 

This is an advanced, elective course for biomedical engineering undergraduates
and beginning graduate students. Quantitative instrumental bioanalysis is an
overview course including various instrumental bioanalysis principles and
methods commonly used in the pharmaceutical industries and biomedical
research. The current biotechnologies based on these instrumental analyses are
discussed along with the strategy of the quality control in the healthcare
industry. The course focuses on the principles and practical application of
the analytical instruments used for quantitative analysis in medicine,
healthcare, and biomedical research. Prerequisite: BME 324 and 351. Spring
Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 450 - Biomedical Eng Design I 

This is the first part of the culminating design experience for biomedical
engineering undergraduate students. Students are challenged to design, and
deliver design solutions to open ended problems of interest to the biomedical
engineering community. This first course takes the students from problem
definition to a finished preliminary design. Course fee applies. Prerequisite:
Senior standing in Biomedical Engineering BME 318, BME 351. Co-requisite: BME
413. Fall Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 451 - Biomedical Eng Design II 

This is the second part of the culminating design experience for biomedical
engineering undergraduate students. Students are challenged to design, and
deliver design solutions to open ended problems of interest to the biomedical
engineering community. This second course takes the students from a finished
preliminary design to implementation, evaluation, redesign and a finished
project including a formal technical report and oral presentation. Course fee
applies. Prerequisite: BME 450 . Spring Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 453 - Biomed Data Man & Reg Science 

This is a lecture-based course for biomedical engineering senior undergraduate
students and graduate students interested in big data management as it relates
to healthcare systems. Some of the topics in this course include biomedical
data acquisition, data mining methodologies, information processing,
healthcare systems, and FDA regulations. Students will use various
computational tools to manipulate large data sets as part of homework
assignments and projects. Prerequisite: BME 340. Spring semester. 3 credit
hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 463 - Bioprocess Engineering 

This course introduces engineering concepts for biological conversion of raw
materials to pharmaceuticals, fuels, and chemicals. Includes enzyme kinetics
and technology; bioreactor kinetics; design, analysis, control, and
sterilization of bioreactors and fermenters; genetic engineering of organisms
to generate commercially-relevant products; and downstream product processing.
Prerequisites: CHEM 231 , BME 213. Spring Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 472 - Expermntal Design & Stat Anyls 

This is an advanced course for biomedical engineering senior undergraduates.
It covers topics such as experimental design and hypothesis testing, ANOVA,
MANOVA, linear and multiple regression, generalized linear modeling, principal
component analysis, clustering, sampling methods, and bioinformatics.
Prerequisites: BME203 , MATH 323 . 3 credits. Fall semester. 3 credit hours.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 473 - Adv Biomat & Biocompatibility 

This is an advanced course for biomedical engineering senior undergraduate
students. The course covers topics such as material mechanical and surface
properties, material degradation mechanisms, and microparticles and
nanoparticles. These topics are discussed with a focus on cardiovascular,
orthopedic, ophthalmological and dental. Additionally, the biological response
to materials is covered in-depth including inflammation, thrombosis, and
immunity. Prerequisite: BME 313. Spring semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 483 - Tissue Engineering 

This course introduces Tissue Engineering approaches at genetic and molecular,
cellular, tissue, and organ levels. Topics include cell and tissue in vitro
expansion, tissue organization, signaling molecules, stem cell and stem cell
differentiation, organ regeneration, biomaterial and matrix for tissue
engineering, bioreactor design for cell and tissue culture, clinical
implementation of tissue engineered products, and tissue-engineered devices.
Prerequisites: BME 313, BME 201, BIOL113. Co-requisite: BME 433. Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 484 - Al in Biomed Engineering 

This is a lecture-based course for biomedical engineering students interested
in learning and applying artificial intelligence (AI) approaches to real-world
biomedical problems. The course focuses on principles of a number of AI and
machine learning tools such as clustering, regression, decision trees, random
forests and neural networks and their applications in various areas of
biomedical engineering, such as biomedical data analysis, disease diagnosis,
clinical risk stratification, disease progression modeling, patient outcome
prediction, and phenotype and biomarker discovery. Students will use various
computational tools to manipulate large data sets as part of homework
assignments and projects. Prerequisites: MATH 227 (Cal II), BME 203 and BME
340 or instructor approval. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 491 - Honors Research 

This course is designed to enrich students’ research experience and to offer
in- depth training in a special field. Students enrolled in this course are
required to conduct honors thesis study. The students must propose a research
project in conjunction with a faculty advisor who will sponsor the work. Upon
the completion of the honors thesis study, the students are required to write
and defend their honors theses. 3 Credit hours; Fall and Spring semester.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 499 - Undergraduate Research 

Student research under the supervision of a faculty member. Prior to enrolling
in the course, a form must be completed and signed by 1) the student, 2) the
professor supervising the research, and 3) the Director of Undergraduate
Studies. Prerequisites: Approval of proposed research projects by the
professor supervising the research. Variable credits (1-3 credits).
Fall/Spring Semesters. Levels: Undergraduate

[ Department of Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/biomedical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
    * [ Courses ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/courses.html)
    * [ BME Minor ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/bmeminor.html)
    * [ BME Honors Program ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/biomedicalhonors.html)
    * [ Biomedical Engineering Society ](/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/bmes.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/biomedical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ Research ](/biomedical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ People ](/biomedical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/biomedical-engineering/alumni/index.html)
  * [ News ](/biomedical-engineering/news.html)
  * [ Give ](https://advance.binghamton.edu/s/1796/interior-giving.aspx?sid=1796&gid=2&pgid=427&cid=1081&bledit=1&dids=83)
  * [ Forms ](/biomedical-engineering/forms.html)
  * [ Contact Us ](/biomedical-engineering/contact-us.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Fcourses.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Fcourses.html&text=Undergraduate+Courses+%7C+Department+of+Biomedical+Engineering+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Fcourses.html&description=Undergraduate+courses+in+Biomedical+Engineering+at+Binghamton+University&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fbiomedical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Fcourses.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Undergraduate%20Courses%20%7C%20Department%20of%20Biomedical%20Engineering%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/biomedical-engineering/undergraduate/courses.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/biomedical-
engineering/undergraduate/courses.pcf)

