Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
    * [ 4+1 Program (BS + MS) ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)
    * [ 4+1 Program FAQ ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1_faq.html)
    * [ 2+2 Program (BS) ](/watson/undergraduate/2-plus-2.html)
    * [ Articulation Agreements ](/watson/undergraduate/articulation.html)
    * [ Pass Rates of Licensing Exams ](/watson/undergraduate/licensing-exams.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

#  Undergraduate

As an engineer or computer scientist, your world will open to a vast array of
challenging and rewarding career possibilities that touch nearly every aspect
of life. Moreover, your future in two of the fastest-growing fields will put
you in the company of some of the highest paid professionals today.

  * [ Apply ](/admissions/)
  * [ Financial Aid ](/financial-aid/)
  * [ Opportunities for Undergraduate Research ](https://www.binghamton.edu/_archive/research-old/index.html)
  * [ Student Clubs and Organizations ](/watson/about/student-groups.html)
  * [ Watson Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Student Shop ](/watson/facilities/fabrication-lab.html)
  * [ Fundamentals of Engineering Exam ](/watson/about/engineering-exams.html)
  * [ Academic Honesty Code ](/watson/about/academic-honesty.html)
  * [ 4+1 Programs ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)
  * [ Dean's List ](https://www.binghamton.edu/watson/undergraduate/deans-list.html)

##  Academic Programs

  * [ Engineering Design Division ](/engineering-design/index.html)
  * [ Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-engineering/index.html)
  * [ Computer Science ](http://binghamton.edu/cs/under-grad/index.html)
  * [ Electrical and Computer Engineering ](/electrical-computer-engineering/index.html)
  * [ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering/index.html)
  * [ Systems Science and Industrial Engineering ](/ssie/undergraduate/index.html)

##  Explore engineering in the common first-year program

Freshman year, you'll investigate and discover the various engineering fields
available to you through the Engineering Design Division.

You'll experience hands-on design and development from the very start,
combining computer graphics and communications in such projects as self-lacing
shoes or turn-signal clothing built using Arduinio, an open-source prototyping
platform.

After you declare a major at the end of your freshman year, you'll enroll in
department-specific courses in biomedical engineering, computer engineering,
electrical engineering, industrial and systems engineering or mechanical
engineering.

[ Explore engineering ](/engineering-design/index.html)

##  Computer Science

Start taking CS courses in your first semester and specialize in areas such as
software systems, networking, operating systems, Web-based systems, graphics,
robotics, microprocessor-based design and game design.

The flexibility of the CS program also gives you the opportunity to minor in
disciplines including the arts, business, math, music, languages or the
sciences.

[ Explore computer science ](http://binghamton.edu/cs/under-grad/index.html)

###  State-of-the-art facilities

Watson College offers modern facilities including more than $7 million in new
equipment and computer facilities. Our focus on hands-on preparation will
teach you the fundamentals of engineering and computer science and the
application of those principles to solve real-world problems.  
When you graduate, you'll be prepared for advanced study or employment in a
wide variety of careers, from employment in industrial firms to small
businesses and financial institutions.

###  Summer internships

Employment in industry and government agencies provides real-world exposure to
emerging fields of technology and to the challenges you’ll face following
graduation.

Often, these positions lead to permanent employment.

[ Explore summer internships ](/watson/student-services/career-
connection/students/opportunities.html)

###  Visiting the campus

Personal interviews are not required for admission; if you wish to speak with
an admissions counselor, you may phone the [ Admissions Office ](/admissions/)
.

You are welcome to join group information sessions and student-guided tours of
the campus held on most weekdays and selected Saturdays during the academic
year.

These sessions cover general information about admission, academic and campus
life, housing and the surrounding community.

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
    * [ 4+1 Program (BS + MS) ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)
    * [ 4+1 Program FAQ ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1_faq.html)
    * [ 2+2 Program (BS) ](/watson/undergraduate/2-plus-2.html)
    * [ Articulation Agreements ](/watson/undergraduate/articulation.html)
    * [ Pass Rates of Licensing Exams ](/watson/undergraduate/licensing-exams.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html&text=Undergraduate+%7C+Thomas+J.+Watson+College+of+Engineering+and+Applied+Science+%7C+Binghamton%0AUniversity)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html&description=&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Undergraduate%20%7C%20Thomas%20J.%20Watson%20College%20of%20Engineering%20and%20Applied%20Science%20%7C%20Binghamton%0AUniversity&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/watson/undergraduate/index.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/21/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/watson/undergraduate/index.pcf)

