Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
    * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
      * [ Who We Are ](/watson/student-services/advising/who-we-are.html)
      * [ Major Requirements and Guidesheets ](/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/index.html "Major Requirements and Guidesheets")
      * [ F.A.Q. and Common Referrals ](/watson/student-services/advising/faq-referrals.html)
      * [ Academic Policies ](/watson/student-services/advising/academic-progress.html "Academic Policies")
      * [ Class Schedules ](https://ssb.cc.binghamton.edu/banner/bwckschd.p_disp_dyn_sched)
      * [ FERPA ](/watson/student-services/advising/ferpa.html)
      * [ GPA Calculator ](/watson/student-services/advising/gpa-calculator.html "GPA Calculator")
      * [ Graduate Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html)
      * [ Graduate Student Forms ](/watson/student-services/advising/grad-forms.html)
      * [ Transfer and Exam Equivalencies ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer-and-exam-equivalencies.html "Transfer and Exam Equivalencies")
      * [ Transfer Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer.html)
      * [ Undergraduate Information ](/watson/student-services/advising/undergraduate.html "Undergraduate Information")
    * [ Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html)
    * [ International Partnerships ](/watson/student-services/international-partnerships/index.html)
    * [ Commencement speakers ](/watson/student-services/commencement-speaker.html)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

#  BME Course Guidesheet 2020-21

[ Printer-friendly version of the guidesheet ](/watson/student-
services/advising/undergrad-forms/bme20.pdf)

MCAT Preparation

These suggested course tracks are based on undergraduate requirements from the
class entering in the 2020-21 academic year. These are only suggestions, [
refer to the University Academic Guide for the official requirements
](https://catalog.binghamton.edu) for each major.

[ For archived requirements refer to the University Academic Guide.
](/bulletin/2023-24/archives.html) Select the desired year, then click
"Digital archive access" under the heading View Online.

For more information on [ graduate-level requirements go here
](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html) .

Please make note of Pre- or Co-requisites

**4 + 1 Master's Programs**  
Complete a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in five years by taking up
to three graduate course in your senior (fourth) year. In your fifth year, you
are admitted to the Graduate School and focus solely on graduate work to
finish your master's degree.

**[ Click here to find out more about benefits of the programs and how to
apply. ](/watson/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html "4 + 1 program information") **

####  Year 1

_Engineering Design Division - The freshman year is common to all engineering
majors_

**Fall**

  * MATH 224 - Differential Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in differential calculus covering limits,
continuity, and differentiation. Prerequisites: MATH 223 with a grade of C- or
better, or Placement Exam. Offered each half semester. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 225 - Integral Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in integral calculus covering optimization and
integration. Prerequisites: MATH 224 with a grade of C- or better. Offered 2nd
half of fall semester and both half semesters of spring semester. 2 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 111 - Chemical Principles 

A one-semester introductory course in modern chemistry for potential science
and engineering majors. Covers molecular structure and bonding, solids,
organic chemistry and polymers, acid/base and redox chemistry, thermodynamics,
electrochemistry and kinetics in both lecture and laboratory. Fulfills all
requirements met by CHEM 107-108.Credits: 4. Format: 3 hour lecture; 2 hour
discussion; 3 hour laboratory per week. Prerequisite: high school chemistry.
Not open to students who have credit for CHEM 107 or CHEM 108 or CHEM 104 or
CHEM 105 or CHEM 106. If taken as a part of a pre-health track an additional
semester of inorganic chemistry must be taken to fulfill the requirement.
Offered in the fall semesters only. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule
of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EDD 111 - Intro to Engineering Design 

First course in a two-semester integrated introduction to the engineering
profession. Emphasizes engineering problem-solving techniques; introduction to
the engineering design process. Includes an introduction to machine shop use,
engineering graphics, circuits, and computer-aided design. This course is
assessed a $235 fee upon registration. Fees are refundable only within the
first week of classes for students that withdraw and non-refundable
thereafter. Corequisite: EDD 103 (linked). Course is offered in the Fall
semester. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 103 - Engineering Communications I 

Develops student's critical thinking skills through the completion of two
team-based projects. Emphasis is on teaming skills, critical reading,
technical writing, oral presentation skills, project management and
professionalism. A technical report and two professional presentations are
required. Corequisite: EDD 111 (linked). Offered in the Fall semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

Body/Wellness

**Spring**

  * MATH 226 - Integration Tech & Application 

This is a 2-credit course covering the calculus of transcendental & inverse
functions, L’Hospital’s Rule, integral techniques, improper integrals,
calculus of parametric curves, and polar coordinates. Prerequisites: Math 225
with a grade of at least a C- or consent of instructor. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 227 - Infinite Series 

This is a 2-credit course covering sequences, series, power series, and Taylor
series. Prerequisites: Math 226 with a grade of at least a C- or consent of
instructor. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 131 - Gen. Physics I(Calculus Based) 

A calculus based introduction to the basic concepts underlying physical
phenomena, including kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, forces found in
nature, rotational motion, angular momentum, simple harmonic motion, fluids,
thermodynamics and kinetic theory. Lectures, discussion, demonstration, and
laboratory. Pre or Co-requisites: high school trigonometry and algebra; AP
calculus or MATH 224/225. Offered spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EDD 112 - Intro to Engineering Analysis 

The conclusion of a two-semester introduction to the practice of engineering.
Content is primarily focused on the application of mathematics in engineering.
Content is reinforced in the EDD 104 engineering design projects. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: EDD 103, EDD 111.
Corequisite: EDD 104 (linked). Course is offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 104 - Engineering Communications II 

This class builds on the skills introduced in EDD 103. Critical reading,
engineering research, and writing through a Conceptual team-based project is
emphasized. Two formal presentations, two research papers using APA
documentation style and a technical report are required. Prerequisite: EDD
103, EDD 111. Corequisite: EDD 112 (Linked). Offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BIOL 113 - Intro to Cell & Molecular Biol 

Introductory Biology: Cell and molecular Biology. Survey of cell and molecular
biology: biological macromolecules, cellular organization and metabolism, cell
communication, cell differentiation, coding of genetic information,
inheritance, gene expression and regulation, cell replication, biotechnology,
as well as cellular and molecular aspects of animal physiology. Lecture and
discussion. BIOL 113 and 114 may be taken in any order. Offered regularly. 4
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

Body/Wellness

####  Year 2

**Fall**

  * BME 201 - Intro to Biomedical Eng 

"This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduate
students. It covers topics such as recombinant DNA technologies, cell and
tissue engineering, stem cell and organ regeneration, 3D tissue and organ
printing, the design of tissue engineered products, biomaterial and tissue
scaffolding, drug delivery, biomechanics, bioinstrumentation, engineering of
immunity, and bio and medical imaging, etc. The application of nano-
biotechnology in developing clinical products such as tissue engineered
products, drug delivery systems, etc. will be emphasized in the course.
Prerequisite: PHYS 131, Math 225. Co-requisite BIOL 113. Fall semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 324 - ODE's for Scientists/Engineers 

Introduction to ordinary differential equations. Topics include first order
equations (separable, linear, homogeneous, exact, substitutions); linear
second order equations (method of undetermined coefficients, variation of
parameters); applications (oscillations and resonance, circuits); Laplace
transform; power series solutions. Only one of MATH 324 and MATH 371 can be
counted towards Math minor. Prerequisites: C- or better in MATH 227 or MATH
230. Every semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 231 - Organic Chemistry I 

Introduction to organic chemistry through a systematic treatment of the
structure, reactivity and stereochemistry of the basic types of hydrocarbons
(alkane, alkene, alkyne, arene), alkyl hadies, and alcohols, as well as
interconversion among these most important classes of organic compounds.
Prerequisite: CHEM 105 or CHEM 108 or 111 or equivalent. Credits 4. Format: 3
hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Offered: Fall; Spring; Summer I. Levels:
Undergraduate

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

**Spring**

  * BME 203 - Biomed Modeling Numerical Meth 

This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. It
covers topics such as error propagation, linear and non-linear models of
biological behavior, iterative solutions to systems of equations, finite
difference methods, numerical interpolation and integration, dynamical
biomedical systems modeling, ordinary and partial differential equations.
Prerequisite: Math 226 , BME 201 . Spring semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 213 - Biomolecular Engineering 

This course introduces engineering principles applied to processes involving
recombinant protein production. It illustrates the development of tools and
technologies of molecular biology and their application in protein
engineering. The engineering aspects of quantitative bioprocess analysis is
particularly emphasized in this course. Topics include bioprocessing,
recombinant DNA technologies, material balances, mass transfer, bioreaction,
and bioreactor engineering. Prerequisites: BME 201, CHEM 111, BIOL 113, MATH
324 or 371. 3 credit hours. Spring semester. Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 323 - Calculus III 

Calculus of functions of several variables. Prerequisites: C- or better in
MATH 227 or MATH 230, or consent of instructor. Every semester. 4 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 132 - Gen.Physics II(Calculus Based) 

Fundamentals of electricity, magnetism, light, wave motion and relativity.
Lectures, discussion, demonstration and laboratory. Prerequisite: PHYS 131.
Pre or Corequisite: MATH 226/227. Offered fall semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

###  Year 3

**Fall**

**BME Depth or Science Elective:** Depth electives are chosen from your
concentration. Science electives include: PSYC 111, PSYC 220, ANTH 243 and
ANTH 240 (summer and winter online courses), any BCHM 300 level and above, any
CHEM 300 level and above, any BIOL 300 level and above.

  * BME 313 - Biomaterials 

This is an introductory biomaterials course for biomedical engineering
undergraduate students. The course covers the primary biomaterial types
including metals, ceramics, polymers, carbons, and composites as well as their
uses in biomedical devices and implants. The application of these materials in
tissue engineering, drug delivery, orthopedic implants, ophthalmologic
devices, and cardiovascular devices will be particularly discussed. The
biological response to implanted materials is emphasized in the course in
terms of inflammation, immunity, infection, and toxicity. The regulatory
biomedical device approval process is introduced as a natural extension of
biocompatibility testing. Prerequisites: BIOL 113, CHEM 231 , BME 213 Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 318 - Biomechanics 

This course introduces students to concepts of engineering mechanics required
to understand the structure and movement of biological systems. This course
will deal primarily with explaining biomechanics from a continuum mechanics
perspective. The course covers topics such as concepts of tensorial stress and
strain, constitutive equations, mechanical properties of biosolid materials,
viscoelasticity, torsion, and bending. The course also introduces topics
specifically relevant to biological materials such as anisotropy,
heterogeneity and failure mechanics. In addition to exploring fundamental
engineering mechanics, this course will also enable students to apply these
engineering principles to relevant real world biomedical problems.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 , MATH 227. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 324 - Biomedical Instruments 

This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. It
covers topics such as bioelectric signals, biomedical electronics, biomedical
electrodes and sensors, instrumentation in diagnostic cardiology,
extracorporeal devices, Instrumentation in blood circulation, and new
technologies and advances in medical instrumentation. The course includes
weekly labs to demonstrate the principles learned in class. The labs cover
biosignal recording (finger pulse, ECG, EEG, and EMG), nerve conduction study,
Wheatstone bridge circuit, and Op-Amp and filter circuits. Prerequisites: BME
201, BME 203, BME 213, PHYS 132. Fall semester. 4 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 330 - Biothermodynamics 

This course introduces the fundamental principles of thermodynamics and its
applications on biomolecules and systems in life science. Topics covered
include energy and its transformation, the first law and second laws of
thermodynamics, the Gibbs free energy, statistical thermodynamics, binding
equilibria, and reaction kinetics. Each topic has been organized to be highly
relevant to biology and biochemistry in living organisms. Lecture 3 hours per
week. Prerequisite: MATH 323, MATH 324, PHYS 131. Course offered in the Fall..
Levels: Undergraduate

**Spring**

  * BME 303 - Bio-fluid Mechanics 

This course is a core course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. This
course introduces students to basic understanding and analysis of macro and
microscopic phenomena of fluid mechanics with special emphasis on applications
of fluid mechanics to biomedical systems. Fluid flows in biomedical systems
mediate the transport of energy, mass and momentum, which is essential to the
function of living systems. Perturbations in these processes often underlie
disease development. Course topics expand from from the basic properties of
fluids, the physics of fluid flow, to cardiovascular fluid mechanics,
pulmonary gas exchange, and renal blood flow and sodium transport.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 , MATH 227, BME 318. 3 credit hours. Spring semester.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 340 - Bioinformatics & Biostatistics 

This course introduces students to Biostatistics and Bioinformatics. The
course covers the basic methods utilized to statistically analyze and present
biological data using R programming language. Current tools, databases, and
technologies in bioinformatics are discussed in this course. Topics include
random variables and probability distributions, hypothesis testing and
statistical inference, ANOVA, sequence alignment and database searching, DNA
sequencing, and BLAST. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , BME 203 . Spring Semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 351 - Biomedical Engineering Lab 

This is a lab-based, complimentary course for biomedical engineering junior
undergraduate students pertaining to principles of biomaterials, biomechanics,
biomolecular engineering, and biofluidics. This lab course is designed to
cover biomaterials, biomechanics, biomolecular engineering, and biofluidic
mechanics in order to formulate and solve problems in biomedical systems
including experimental design, performance, and analysis. Course fee applies.
Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisites: BME 213 , BME 324, BME 318 .
Co-requisite: BME 303. Spring Semester. 1 credit hour. Levels: Undergraduate

AND

  * BIOL 311 - Principles Of Cell Biology 

Structure and function of cells. Emphasis on research techniques so that
contemporary problems in cell and molecular biology can be explored. Special
themes addressed throughout the course include regenerative medicine and stem
cell therapy, new approaches to treat cancer and other diseases, personalized
medicine, and new advances in biomedical devices. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 and
CHEM 104 or CHEM 107 or CHEM 111 Frequency: Fall/Spring. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

OR

  * BIOL 401 - Molecular Genetics 

The structure and function of nucleic acids, mechanisms of DNA replication,
transcription, protein synthesis, recombinant DNA techniques and their
applications. Gene and genome structure and its relation to gene regulation in
development and response to environmental and internal challenges. Lecture and
discussion. Prerequisites: BIOL 113, 115 or equivalent, CHEM 104 and 105 or
CHEM 107 and 108 (or 111). Offered Fall only. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

###  Year 4

**Fall;**

**BME Depth Elective:** Depth electives are chosen from your concentration.

  * BME 413 - Biomedical Transport Phenomena 

This course combines both fundamental engineering with physics and life
sciences principles to provide focused coverage of key momentum and mass
transport phenomena relevant to biomedical engineering. This course covers
topics including thermodynamics, the physical principles of body fluids and
cell membranes, molecular motors, cellular mechanics, solute and oxygen
transport, pharmokinetic transport and extracorporeal devices such as blood
oxygenators, hemodialysis and enzyme reactors. The course will also explore
the design of modern day bioartifical organs. The goal of the lecture course
is to emphasize the chemical and physical transport phenomena essential for
biological life and the design and development of contemporary biomedical
devices relevant to transport. Prerequisites: BME 303, BME 318, BME 330. Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 432 - Ethics in Engineering 

Our goal on offering this course is to bring contextual understanding of the
fundamental relationships between professional responsibility and damage
wrought by natural disasters. We have chosen Hurricane Katrina, as it is still
very relevant today yet sufficient time has passed such that careful analysis
of the storm and its aftermath is underway. While the course focuses upon the
profession of engineering, it is equally as relevant for students entering a
vast array of professions. We seek to move students understanding of the
tragic occurrence of disasters such as Hurricane Katrina from a purely
analytical one to an understanding that can begin to lead to empathy and
ultimately compassion. For it is our belief that such compassion can and will
lead to more enlightened, courageous future leaders willing to act in the face
of imminent threat whatever professions our students decide to pursue. Co-
requisite: BME 450. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 433 - Human Physiology 

An introduction to the major organ systems of the body with an emphasis on
regulatory processes and interactions with other systems. The course provides
students with a basic understanding of the prevalent theories of physiology
and pathophysiology and the application of these theories to health concerns
relevant to biomedical engineering. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , CHEM 231 . Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 450 - Biomedical Eng Design I 

This is the first part of the culminating design experience for biomedical
engineering undergraduate students. Students are challenged to design, and
deliver design solutions to open ended problems of interest to the biomedical
engineering community. This first course takes the students from problem
definition to a finished preliminary design. Course fee applies. Prerequisite:
Senior standing in Biomedical Engineering BME 318, BME 351. Co-requisite: BME
413. Fall Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

**Spring**

**BME Depth or Science Elective:** _Depth electives are chosen from your
concentration. Science electives include: PSYC 111, PSYC 220, ANTH 243 and
ANTH 240 (summer and winter online courses), any BCHM 300 level and above, any
CHEM 300 level and above, any BIOL 300 level and above._

BME Depth Elective - _Depth eectives are chosen from your concentration._

_

  * BME 451 - Biomedical Eng Design II 

This is the second part of the culminating design experience for biomedical
engineering undergraduate students. Students are challenged to design, and
deliver design solutions to open ended problems of interest to the biomedical
engineering community. This second course takes the students from a finished
preliminary design to implementation, evaluation, redesign and a finished
project including a formal technical report and oral presentation. Course fee
applies. Prerequisite: BME 450 . Spring Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

_

##  BME with MCAT Preparation

###  Year 1

_Engineering Design Division - The freshman year is common to all engineering
majors_

**Fall**

  * MATH 224 - Differential Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in differential calculus covering limits,
continuity, and differentiation. Prerequisites: MATH 223 with a grade of C- or
better, or Placement Exam. Offered each half semester. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 225 - Integral Calculus 

This is a 2-credit course in integral calculus covering optimization and
integration. Prerequisites: MATH 224 with a grade of C- or better. Offered 2nd
half of fall semester and both half semesters of spring semester. 2 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 111 - Chemical Principles 

A one-semester introductory course in modern chemistry for potential science
and engineering majors. Covers molecular structure and bonding, solids,
organic chemistry and polymers, acid/base and redox chemistry, thermodynamics,
electrochemistry and kinetics in both lecture and laboratory. Fulfills all
requirements met by CHEM 107-108.Credits: 4. Format: 3 hour lecture; 2 hour
discussion; 3 hour laboratory per week. Prerequisite: high school chemistry.
Not open to students who have credit for CHEM 107 or CHEM 108 or CHEM 104 or
CHEM 105 or CHEM 106. If taken as a part of a pre-health track an additional
semester of inorganic chemistry must be taken to fulfill the requirement.
Offered in the fall semesters only. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule
of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EDD 111 - Intro to Engineering Design 

First course in a two-semester integrated introduction to the engineering
profession. Emphasizes engineering problem-solving techniques; introduction to
the engineering design process. Includes an introduction to machine shop use,
engineering graphics, circuits, and computer-aided design. This course is
assessed a $235 fee upon registration. Fees are refundable only within the
first week of classes for students that withdraw and non-refundable
thereafter. Corequisite: EDD 103 (linked). Course is offered in the Fall
semester. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 103 - Engineering Communications I 

Develops student's critical thinking skills through the completion of two
team-based projects. Emphasis is on teaming skills, critical reading,
technical writing, oral presentation skills, project management and
professionalism. A technical report and two professional presentations are
required. Corequisite: EDD 111 (linked). Offered in the Fall semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

Body/Wellness

**Spring**

  * MATH 226 - Integration Tech & Application 

This is a 2-credit course covering the calculus of transcendental & inverse
functions, L’Hospital’s Rule, integral techniques, improper integrals,
calculus of parametric curves, and polar coordinates. Prerequisites: Math 225
with a grade of at least a C- or consent of instructor. 2 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * MATH 227 - Infinite Series 

This is a 2-credit course covering sequences, series, power series, and Taylor
series. Prerequisites: Math 226 with a grade of at least a C- or consent of
instructor. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 131 - Gen. Physics I(Calculus Based) 

A calculus based introduction to the basic concepts underlying physical
phenomena, including kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, forces found in
nature, rotational motion, angular momentum, simple harmonic motion, fluids,
thermodynamics and kinetic theory. Lectures, discussion, demonstration, and
laboratory. Pre or Co-requisites: high school trigonometry and algebra; AP
calculus or MATH 224/225. Offered spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * EDD 112 - Intro to Engineering Analysis 

The conclusion of a two-semester introduction to the practice of engineering.
Content is primarily focused on the application of mathematics in engineering.
Content is reinforced in the EDD 104 engineering design projects. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: EDD 103, EDD 111.
Corequisite: EDD 104 (linked). Course is offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 104 - Engineering Communications II 

This class builds on the skills introduced in EDD 103. Critical reading,
engineering research, and writing through a Conceptual team-based project is
emphasized. Two formal presentations, two research papers using APA
documentation style and a technical report are required. Prerequisite: EDD
103, EDD 111. Corequisite: EDD 112 (Linked). Offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BIOL 113 - Intro to Cell & Molecular Biol 

Introductory Biology: Cell and molecular Biology. Survey of cell and molecular
biology: biological macromolecules, cellular organization and metabolism, cell
communication, cell differentiation, coding of genetic information,
inheritance, gene expression and regulation, cell replication, biotechnology,
as well as cellular and molecular aspects of animal physiology. Lecture and
discussion. BIOL 113 and 114 may be taken in any order. Offered regularly. 4
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

Body/Wellness

###  Year 2

**Fall**

  * BME 201 - Intro to Biomedical Eng 

"This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduate
students. It covers topics such as recombinant DNA technologies, cell and
tissue engineering, stem cell and organ regeneration, 3D tissue and organ
printing, the design of tissue engineered products, biomaterial and tissue
scaffolding, drug delivery, biomechanics, bioinstrumentation, engineering of
immunity, and bio and medical imaging, etc. The application of nano-
biotechnology in developing clinical products such as tissue engineered
products, drug delivery systems, etc. will be emphasized in the course.
Prerequisite: PHYS 131, Math 225. Co-requisite BIOL 113. Fall semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 324 - ODE's for Scientists/Engineers 

Introduction to ordinary differential equations. Topics include first order
equations (separable, linear, homogeneous, exact, substitutions); linear
second order equations (method of undetermined coefficients, variation of
parameters); applications (oscillations and resonance, circuits); Laplace
transform; power series solutions. Only one of MATH 324 and MATH 371 can be
counted towards Math minor. Prerequisites: C- or better in MATH 227 or MATH
230. Every semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 231 - Organic Chemistry I 

Introduction to organic chemistry through a systematic treatment of the
structure, reactivity and stereochemistry of the basic types of hydrocarbons
(alkane, alkene, alkyne, arene), alkyl hadies, and alcohols, as well as
interconversion among these most important classes of organic compounds.
Prerequisite: CHEM 105 or CHEM 108 or 111 or equivalent. Credits 4. Format: 3
hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Offered: Fall; Spring; Summer I. Levels:
Undergraduate

**Spring**

  * BME 203 - Biomed Modeling Numerical Meth 

This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. It
covers topics such as error propagation, linear and non-linear models of
biological behavior, iterative solutions to systems of equations, finite
difference methods, numerical interpolation and integration, dynamical
biomedical systems modeling, ordinary and partial differential equations.
Prerequisite: Math 226 , BME 201 . Spring semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 213 - Biomolecular Engineering 

This course introduces engineering principles applied to processes involving
recombinant protein production. It illustrates the development of tools and
technologies of molecular biology and their application in protein
engineering. The engineering aspects of quantitative bioprocess analysis is
particularly emphasized in this course. Topics include bioprocessing,
recombinant DNA technologies, material balances, mass transfer, bioreaction,
and bioreactor engineering. Prerequisites: BME 201, CHEM 111, BIOL 113, MATH
324 or 371. 3 credit hours. Spring semester. Levels: Undergraduate

  * MATH 323 - Calculus III 

Calculus of functions of several variables. Prerequisites: C- or better in
MATH 227 or MATH 230, or consent of instructor. Every semester. 4 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * PHYS 132 - Gen.Physics II(Calculus Based) 

Fundamentals of electricity, magnetism, light, wave motion and relativity.
Lectures, discussion, demonstration and laboratory. Prerequisite: PHYS 131.
Pre or Corequisite: MATH 226/227. Offered fall semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

**Pre-Med Elective:** Any BCHM 300 level and above, any CHEM 300 level and
above, any BIOL 300 level and above, or any from this list:

  * BIOL 117 - Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 

Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 332 - Organic Chemistry II 

Continuation of CHEM 231. Spectroscopy, organometallic reagents, alcohols,
ethers / epoxides, aldehydes / ketones, esters, carboxylic acids and amines.
Also with selected introduction to biologically relevant compounds including
carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids / peptides / proteins, and nucleic acids.
Credits: 4. Format: 3 hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Prerequisite: CHEM
231. Offered Fall, Spring, Summer II. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 335 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory 

Separation, purification and analysis of organic compounds; simple and multi-
step synthesis; spectroscopic methods. Prerequisite: CHEM 231 and CHEM 106 or
CHEM 108 or 111 or AP score = 5. Credits 2. Format: 1 hour of lecture, 4 hours
of laboratory. Offered Fall, Spring and Summer II. Course fee applies. Refer
to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * PSYC 111 - General Psychology 

The study of behavior-an overview of fundamental concepts, methods and results
from major areas of psychological inquiry. Includes quantitative methods in
the study of psychological phenomena; physiological bases of behavior,
sensation, perception, motivation and emotion; learning; cognitive/symbolic
processes; personality and social behavior. Exposure to methods used in
psychological research is accomplished by participating in studies conducted
by department faculty (or equivalent assignment). Students must earn a grade
of C or higher for this course to apply to the major. PSYC 112 must be taken
in addition to PSYC 111, both on a letter-grade basis, to satisfy the General
Education Laboratory Science requirement. PSYC 111 and PSYC 112 do NOT need to
be taken during the same semester. Offered both fall and spring semesters as
well as often during the summer, 4 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * BIOL 403 - Biochemistry 

Cellular constituents and their roles in life procesess. Structure and
function of proteins/enzymes, membranes. Metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids,
amino acids. Energetics and regulation of metabolism. Prerequisites: BIOL 113
or BIOL 118, CHEM 231 and 332. Fall and Spring. 4 credits. NOTE: Students who
have taken BIOL 304 will NOT receive credit for BIOL 403 or BCHM 403\. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ANTH 240 - Medical Anthro for Pre-Health 

Introduction to medical anthropology, designed for students in the Pre-Health
program. Biological anthro course. 2 credits. No prerequisites. Offered in
Winter and Summer sessions. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ANTH 243 - Medical Anthro:Humn Bio.& Hlth 

Biological and/or sociocultural approaches to health and illness in human
populations. Examines health from epidemiological, genetic, environmental, and
child growth perspectives; emphasizes study of sociocultural variation in
understandings of health and illness. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

###  Year 3

**Fall**

  * BME 318 - Biomechanics 

This course introduces students to concepts of engineering mechanics required
to understand the structure and movement of biological systems. This course
will deal primarily with explaining biomechanics from a continuum mechanics
perspective. The course covers topics such as concepts of tensorial stress and
strain, constitutive equations, mechanical properties of biosolid materials,
viscoelasticity, torsion, and bending. The course also introduces topics
specifically relevant to biological materials such as anisotropy,
heterogeneity and failure mechanics. In addition to exploring fundamental
engineering mechanics, this course will also enable students to apply these
engineering principles to relevant real world biomedical problems.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 , MATH 227. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 324 - Biomedical Instruments 

This is an introductory course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. It
covers topics such as bioelectric signals, biomedical electronics, biomedical
electrodes and sensors, instrumentation in diagnostic cardiology,
extracorporeal devices, Instrumentation in blood circulation, and new
technologies and advances in medical instrumentation. The course includes
weekly labs to demonstrate the principles learned in class. The labs cover
biosignal recording (finger pulse, ECG, EEG, and EMG), nerve conduction study,
Wheatstone bridge circuit, and Op-Amp and filter circuits. Prerequisites: BME
201, BME 203, BME 213, PHYS 132. Fall semester. 4 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 330 - Biothermodynamics 

This course introduces the fundamental principles of thermodynamics and its
applications on biomolecules and systems in life science. Topics covered
include energy and its transformation, the first law and second laws of
thermodynamics, the Gibbs free energy, statistical thermodynamics, binding
equilibria, and reaction kinetics. Each topic has been organized to be highly
relevant to biology and biochemistry in living organisms. Lecture 3 hours per
week. Prerequisite: MATH 323, MATH 324, PHYS 131. Course offered in the Fall..
Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 341 - Intermediate Inorganic Chem. 

Relations among structure, energy and reactivity of inorganic systems;
transition and non-transition elements. Descriptive chemistry of common
elements; chemistry of solid state. Prerequisite: CHEM 105 or CHEM 108 or 111.
4 credits. Format: 3 hours of lecture. Offered: Fall. Levels: Undergraduate

**Pre-Med Elective:** Any BCHM 300 level and above, any CHEM 300 level and
above, any BIOL 300 level and above, or any from this list:

  * BIOL 117 - Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 

Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 332 - Organic Chemistry II 

Continuation of CHEM 231. Spectroscopy, organometallic reagents, alcohols,
ethers / epoxides, aldehydes / ketones, esters, carboxylic acids and amines.
Also with selected introduction to biologically relevant compounds including
carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids / peptides / proteins, and nucleic acids.
Credits: 4. Format: 3 hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Prerequisite: CHEM
231. Offered Fall, Spring, Summer II. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 335 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory 

Separation, purification and analysis of organic compounds; simple and multi-
step synthesis; spectroscopic methods. Prerequisite: CHEM 231 and CHEM 106 or
CHEM 108 or 111 or AP score = 5. Credits 2. Format: 1 hour of lecture, 4 hours
of laboratory. Offered Fall, Spring and Summer II. Course fee applies. Refer
to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * PSYC 111 - General Psychology 

The study of behavior-an overview of fundamental concepts, methods and results
from major areas of psychological inquiry. Includes quantitative methods in
the study of psychological phenomena; physiological bases of behavior,
sensation, perception, motivation and emotion; learning; cognitive/symbolic
processes; personality and social behavior. Exposure to methods used in
psychological research is accomplished by participating in studies conducted
by department faculty (or equivalent assignment). Students must earn a grade
of C or higher for this course to apply to the major. PSYC 112 must be taken
in addition to PSYC 111, both on a letter-grade basis, to satisfy the General
Education Laboratory Science requirement. PSYC 111 and PSYC 112 do NOT need to
be taken during the same semester. Offered both fall and spring semesters as
well as often during the summer, 4 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * BIOL 403 - Biochemistry 

Cellular constituents and their roles in life procesess. Structure and
function of proteins/enzymes, membranes. Metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids,
amino acids. Energetics and regulation of metabolism. Prerequisites: BIOL 113
or BIOL 118, CHEM 231 and 332. Fall and Spring. 4 credits. NOTE: Students who
have taken BIOL 304 will NOT receive credit for BIOL 403 or BCHM 403\. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ANTH 240 - Medical Anthro for Pre-Health 

Introduction to medical anthropology, designed for students in the Pre-Health
program. Biological anthro course. 2 credits. No prerequisites. Offered in
Winter and Summer sessions. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ANTH 243 - Medical Anthro:Humn Bio.& Hlth 

Biological and/or sociocultural approaches to health and illness in human
populations. Examines health from epidemiological, genetic, environmental, and
child growth perspectives; emphasizes study of sociocultural variation in
understandings of health and illness. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

**Spring**

  * BME 303 - Bio-fluid Mechanics 

This course is a core course for biomedical engineering undergraduates. This
course introduces students to basic understanding and analysis of macro and
microscopic phenomena of fluid mechanics with special emphasis on applications
of fluid mechanics to biomedical systems. Fluid flows in biomedical systems
mediate the transport of energy, mass and momentum, which is essential to the
function of living systems. Perturbations in these processes often underlie
disease development. Course topics expand from from the basic properties of
fluids, the physics of fluid flow, to cardiovascular fluid mechanics,
pulmonary gas exchange, and renal blood flow and sodium transport.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 , MATH 227, BME 318. 3 credit hours. Spring semester.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 340 - Bioinformatics & Biostatistics 

This course introduces students to Biostatistics and Bioinformatics. The
course covers the basic methods utilized to statistically analyze and present
biological data using R programming language. Current tools, databases, and
technologies in bioinformatics are discussed in this course. Topics include
random variables and probability distributions, hypothesis testing and
statistical inference, ANOVA, sequence alignment and database searching, DNA
sequencing, and BLAST. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , BME 203 . Spring Semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 351 - Biomedical Engineering Lab 

This is a lab-based, complimentary course for biomedical engineering junior
undergraduate students pertaining to principles of biomaterials, biomechanics,
biomolecular engineering, and biofluidics. This lab course is designed to
cover biomaterials, biomechanics, biomolecular engineering, and biofluidic
mechanics in order to formulate and solve problems in biomedical systems
including experimental design, performance, and analysis. Course fee applies.
Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisites: BME 213 , BME 324, BME 318 .
Co-requisite: BME 303. Spring Semester. 1 credit hour. Levels: Undergraduate

Two Pre-Med Electives: Any BCHM 300 level and above, any CHEM 300 level and
above, any BIOL 300 level and above, or any from this list:

  * BIOL 117 - Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 

Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 332 - Organic Chemistry II 

Continuation of CHEM 231. Spectroscopy, organometallic reagents, alcohols,
ethers / epoxides, aldehydes / ketones, esters, carboxylic acids and amines.
Also with selected introduction to biologically relevant compounds including
carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids / peptides / proteins, and nucleic acids.
Credits: 4. Format: 3 hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Prerequisite: CHEM
231. Offered Fall, Spring, Summer II. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 335 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory 

Separation, purification and analysis of organic compounds; simple and multi-
step synthesis; spectroscopic methods. Prerequisite: CHEM 231 and CHEM 106 or
CHEM 108 or 111 or AP score = 5. Credits 2. Format: 1 hour of lecture, 4 hours
of laboratory. Offered Fall, Spring and Summer II. Course fee applies. Refer
to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * PSYC 111 - General Psychology 

The study of behavior-an overview of fundamental concepts, methods and results
from major areas of psychological inquiry. Includes quantitative methods in
the study of psychological phenomena; physiological bases of behavior,
sensation, perception, motivation and emotion; learning; cognitive/symbolic
processes; personality and social behavior. Exposure to methods used in
psychological research is accomplished by participating in studies conducted
by department faculty (or equivalent assignment). Students must earn a grade
of C or higher for this course to apply to the major. PSYC 112 must be taken
in addition to PSYC 111, both on a letter-grade basis, to satisfy the General
Education Laboratory Science requirement. PSYC 111 and PSYC 112 do NOT need to
be taken during the same semester. Offered both fall and spring semesters as
well as often during the summer, 4 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * BIOL 403 - Biochemistry 

Cellular constituents and their roles in life procesess. Structure and
function of proteins/enzymes, membranes. Metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids,
amino acids. Energetics and regulation of metabolism. Prerequisites: BIOL 113
or BIOL 118, CHEM 231 and 332. Fall and Spring. 4 credits. NOTE: Students who
have taken BIOL 304 will NOT receive credit for BIOL 403 or BCHM 403\. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ANTH 240 - Medical Anthro for Pre-Health 

Introduction to medical anthropology, designed for students in the Pre-Health
program. Biological anthro course. 2 credits. No prerequisites. Offered in
Winter and Summer sessions. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ANTH 243 - Medical Anthro:Humn Bio.& Hlth 

Biological and/or sociocultural approaches to health and illness in human
populations. Examines health from epidemiological, genetic, environmental, and
child growth perspectives; emphasizes study of sociocultural variation in
understandings of health and illness. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

###  MCAT

**Typically taken after Junior Year**

Before MCAT, you should take:

  * BIOL 117 - Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 

Intro Bio: See BIOL 114 Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * BIOL 113 - Intro to Cell & Molecular Biol 

Introductory Biology: Cell and molecular Biology. Survey of cell and molecular
biology: biological macromolecules, cellular organization and metabolism, cell
communication, cell differentiation, coding of genetic information,
inheritance, gene expression and regulation, cell replication, biotechnology,
as well as cellular and molecular aspects of animal physiology. Lecture and
discussion. BIOL 113 and 114 may be taken in any order. Offered regularly. 4
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 111 - Chemical Principles 

A one-semester introductory course in modern chemistry for potential science
and engineering majors. Covers molecular structure and bonding, solids,
organic chemistry and polymers, acid/base and redox chemistry, thermodynamics,
electrochemistry and kinetics in both lecture and laboratory. Fulfills all
requirements met by CHEM 107-108.Credits: 4. Format: 3 hour lecture; 2 hour
discussion; 3 hour laboratory per week. Prerequisite: high school chemistry.
Not open to students who have credit for CHEM 107 or CHEM 108 or CHEM 104 or
CHEM 105 or CHEM 106. If taken as a part of a pre-health track an additional
semester of inorganic chemistry must be taken to fulfill the requirement.
Offered in the fall semesters only. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule
of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 341 - Intermediate Inorganic Chem. 

Relations among structure, energy and reactivity of inorganic systems;
transition and non-transition elements. Descriptive chemistry of common
elements; chemistry of solid state. Prerequisite: CHEM 105 or CHEM 108 or 111.
4 credits. Format: 3 hours of lecture. Offered: Fall. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 231 - Organic Chemistry I 

Introduction to organic chemistry through a systematic treatment of the
structure, reactivity and stereochemistry of the basic types of hydrocarbons
(alkane, alkene, alkyne, arene), alkyl hadies, and alcohols, as well as
interconversion among these most important classes of organic compounds.
Prerequisite: CHEM 105 or CHEM 108 or 111 or equivalent. Credits 4\. Format: 3
hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Offered: Fall; Spring; Summer I. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * CHEM 332 - Organic Chemistry II 

Continuation of CHEM 231. Spectroscopy, organometallic reagents, alcohols,
ethers / epoxides, aldehydes / ketones, esters, carboxylic acids and amines.
Also with selected introduction to biologically relevant compounds including
carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids / peptides / proteins, and nucleic acids.
Credits: 4. Format: 3 hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Prerequisite: CHEM
231. Offered Fall, Spring, Summer II. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 335 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory 

Separation, purification and analysis of organic compounds; simple and multi-
step synthesis; spectroscopic methods. Prerequisite: CHEM 231 and CHEM 106 or
CHEM 108 or 111 or AP score = 5. Credits 2. Format: 1 hour of lecture, 4 hours
of laboratory. Offered Fall, Spring and Summer II. Course fee applies. Refer
to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * PHYS 131 - Gen. Physics I(Calculus Based) 

A calculus based introduction to the basic concepts underlying physical
phenomena, including kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, forces found in
nature, rotational motion, angular momentum, simple harmonic motion, fluids,
thermodynamics and kinetic theory. Lectures, discussion, demonstration, and
laboratory. Pre or Co-requisites: high school trigonometry and algebra; AP
calculus or MATH 224/225. Offered spring semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * PHYS 132 - Gen.Physics II(Calculus Based) 

Fundamentals of electricity, magnetism, light, wave motion and relativity.
Lectures, discussion, demonstration and laboratory. Prerequisite: PHYS 131.
Pre or Corequisite: MATH 226/227. Offered fall semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * PSYC 111 - General Psychology 

The study of behavior-an overview of fundamental concepts, methods and results
from major areas of psychological inquiry. Includes quantitative methods in
the study of psychological phenomena; physiological bases of behavior,
sensation, perception, motivation and emotion; learning; cognitive/symbolic
processes; personality and social behavior. Exposure to methods used in
psychological research is accomplished by participating in studies conducted
by department faculty (or equivalent assignment). Students must earn a grade
of C or higher for this course to apply to the major. PSYC 112 must be taken
in addition to PSYC 111, both on a letter-grade basis, to satisfy the General
Education Laboratory Science requirement. PSYC 111 and PSYC 112 do NOT need to
be taken during the same semester. Offered both fall and spring semesters as
well as often during the summer, 4 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * BIOL 403 - Biochemistry 

Cellular constituents and their roles in life procesess. Structure and
function of proteins/enzymes, membranes. Metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids,
amino acids. Energetics and regulation of metabolism. Prerequisites: BIOL 113
or BIOL 118, CHEM 231 and 332. Fall and Spring. 4 credits. NOTE: Students who
have taken BIOL 304 will NOT receive credit for BIOL 403 or BCHM 403\. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 340 - Bioinformatics & Biostatistics 

This course introduces students to Biostatistics and Bioinformatics. The
course covers the basic methods utilized to statistically analyze and present
biological data using R programming language. Current tools, databases, and
technologies in bioinformatics are discussed in this course. Topics include
random variables and probability distributions, hypothesis testing and
statistical inference, ANOVA, sequence alignment and database searching, DNA
sequencing, and BLAST. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , BME 203 . Spring Semester. 3
credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ANTH 240 - Medical Anthro for Pre-Health 

Introduction to medical anthropology, designed for students in the Pre-Health
program. Biological anthro course. 2 credits. No prerequisites. Offered in
Winter and Summer sessions. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ANTH 243 - Medical Anthro:Humn Bio.& Hlth 

Biological and/or sociocultural approaches to health and illness in human
populations. Examines health from epidemiological, genetic, environmental, and
child growth perspectives; emphasizes study of sociocultural variation in
understandings of health and illness. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

###  Year 4

**Fall**

**BME Depth Elective:** Students who are planning on taking the MCAT, must
choose two additional depth electives from any of the other BME
concentrations, except pre-health to meet the 48 engineering credit hour
requirement.

  * BME 313 - Biomaterials 

This is an introductory biomaterials course for biomedical engineering
undergraduate students. The course covers the primary biomaterial types
including metals, ceramics, polymers, carbons, and composites as well as their
uses in biomedical devices and implants. The application of these materials in
tissue engineering, drug delivery, orthopedic implants, ophthalmologic
devices, and cardiovascular devices will be particularly discussed. The
biological response to implanted materials is emphasized in the course in
terms of inflammation, immunity, infection, and toxicity. The regulatory
biomedical device approval process is introduced as a natural extension of
biocompatibility testing. Prerequisites: BIOL 113, CHEM 231 , BME 213 Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 413 - Biomedical Transport Phenomena 

This course combines both fundamental engineering with physics and life
sciences principles to provide focused coverage of key momentum and mass
transport phenomena relevant to biomedical engineering. This course covers
topics including thermodynamics, the physical principles of body fluids and
cell membranes, molecular motors, cellular mechanics, solute and oxygen
transport, pharmokinetic transport and extracorporeal devices such as blood
oxygenators, hemodialysis and enzyme reactors. The course will also explore
the design of modern day bioartifical organs. The goal of the lecture course
is to emphasize the chemical and physical transport phenomena essential for
biological life and the design and development of contemporary biomedical
devices relevant to transport. Prerequisites: BME 303, BME 318, BME 330. Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 432 - Ethics in Engineering 

Our goal on offering this course is to bring contextual understanding of the
fundamental relationships between professional responsibility and damage
wrought by natural disasters. We have chosen Hurricane Katrina, as it is still
very relevant today yet sufficient time has passed such that careful analysis
of the storm and its aftermath is underway. While the course focuses upon the
profession of engineering, it is equally as relevant for students entering a
vast array of professions. We seek to move students understanding of the
tragic occurrence of disasters such as Hurricane Katrina from a purely
analytical one to an understanding that can begin to lead to empathy and
ultimately compassion. For it is our belief that such compassion can and will
lead to more enlightened, courageous future leaders willing to act in the face
of imminent threat whatever professions our students decide to pursue. Co-
requisite: BME 450. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 433 - Human Physiology 

An introduction to the major organ systems of the body with an emphasis on
regulatory processes and interactions with other systems. The course provides
students with a basic understanding of the prevalent theories of physiology
and pathophysiology and the application of these theories to health concerns
relevant to biomedical engineering. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 , CHEM 231 . Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 450 - Biomedical Eng Design I 

This is the first part of the culminating design experience for biomedical
engineering undergraduate students. Students are challenged to design, and
deliver design solutions to open ended problems of interest to the biomedical
engineering community. This first course takes the students from problem
definition to a finished preliminary design. Course fee applies. Prerequisite:
Senior standing in Biomedical Engineering BME 318, BME 351. Co-requisite: BME
413. Fall Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

**Spring**

**BME Depth Elective:** Students who are planning on taking the MCAT, must
choose two additional depth electives from any of the other BME
concentrations, except pre-health to meet the 48 engineering credit hour
requirement.

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

General Education Elective (A, G, N, P)

  * BME 451 - Biomedical Eng Design II 

This is the second part of the culminating design experience for biomedical
engineering undergraduate students. Students are challenged to design, and
deliver design solutions to open ended problems of interest to the biomedical
engineering community. This second course takes the students from a finished
preliminary design to implementation, evaluation, redesign and a finished
project including a formal technical report and oral presentation. Course fee
applies. Prerequisite: BME 450 . Spring Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

AND

  * BIOL 311 - Principles Of Cell Biology 

Structure and function of cells. Emphasis on research techniques so that
contemporary problems in cell and molecular biology can be explored. Special
themes addressed throughout the course include regenerative medicine and stem
cell therapy, new approaches to treat cancer and other diseases, personalized
medicine, and new advances in biomedical devices. Prerequisites: BIOL 113 and
CHEM 104 or CHEM 107 or CHEM 111 Frequency: Fall/Spring. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

OR

  * BIOL 401 - Molecular Genetics 

The structure and function of nucleic acids, mechanisms of DNA replication,
transcription, protein synthesis, recombinant DNA techniques and their
applications. Gene and genome structure and its relation to gene regulation in
development and response to environmental and internal challenges. Lecture and
discussion. Prerequisites: BIOL 113, 115 or equivalent, CHEM 104 and 105 or
CHEM 107 and 108 (or 111). Offered Fall only. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

##  BME Major Concentrations

Students are required to select an area of emphasis to gain more in-depth
knowledge and specialty training in biomedical engineering.

Students must take any two courses from the list of courses prescribed in each
concentration to declare their concentration.

Courses from a concentration fulfill the BME Depth Electives.

**Biomaterials and Bio-pharmaceutical Technology Concentration**

(Choose two courses to declare this concentration)

  * BME 483 - Tissue Engineering 

This course introduces Tissue Engineering approaches at genetic and molecular,
cellular, tissue, and organ levels. Topics include cell and tissue in vitro
expansion, tissue organization, signaling molecules, stem cell and stem cell
differentiation, organ regeneration, biomaterial and matrix for tissue
engineering, bioreactor design for cell and tissue culture, clinical
implementation of tissue engineered products, and tissue-engineered devices.
Prerequisites: BME 313, BME 201, BIOL113. Co-requisite: BME 433. Fall
semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 473 - Adv Biomat & Biocompatibility 

This is an advanced course for biomedical engineering senior undergraduate
students. The course covers topics such as material mechanical and surface
properties, material degradation mechanisms, and microparticles and
nanoparticles. These topics are discussed with a focus on cardiovascular,
orthopedic, ophthalmological and dental. Additionally, the biological response
to materials is covered in-depth including inflammation, thrombosis, and
immunity. Prerequisite: BME 313. Spring semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 463 - Bioprocess Engineering 

This course introduces engineering concepts for biological conversion of raw
materials to pharmaceuticals, fuels, and chemicals. Includes enzyme kinetics
and technology; bioreactor kinetics; design, analysis, control, and
sterilization of bioreactors and fermenters; genetic engineering of organisms
to generate commercially-relevant products; and downstream product processing.
Prerequisites: CHEM 231 , BME 213. Spring Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * BME 442 - Nanotechnology & Drug Delivery 

The course introduces basics concepts of nanobiotechnologies, including
mathematical description of controlled release, and targeted and passive drug
delivery. Different types of drug delivery nanotechnologies, including lipid-,
polymer-, hydrogel-, and virus-based delivery systems and their application in
disease treatments are also covered in this course. Undergraduate
Prerequisite: BME213, MATH 324 . Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

**Computational Biosystems Concentration**

(Choose two courses to declare this concentration)

  * BME 470 - Advanced Bioinformatics 

This course is a continuation of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics (BME 340).
The course covers advanced topics in modern bioinformatics. Topics include,
advanced database searching and sequence alignment, molecular phylogeny and
evolution, analysis of next-generation sequence data, microarray, data
analysis, protein analysis and proteomics, and personalized medicine and drug
design. The course includes computer labs as part of the lectures that cover
computational tools used to analyze genomic and proteomic data. Prerequisites:
BME 340. Fall Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 453 - Biomed Data Man & Reg Science 

This is a lecture-based course for biomedical engineering senior undergraduate
students and graduate students interested in big data management as it relates
to healthcare systems. Some of the topics in this course include biomedical
data acquisition, data mining methodologies, information processing,
healthcare systems, and FDA regulations. Students will use various
computational tools to manipulate large data sets as part of homework
assignments and projects. Prerequisite: BME 340. Spring semester. 3 credit
hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 472 - Expermntal Design & Stat Anyls 

This is an advanced course for biomedical engineering senior undergraduates.
It covers topics such as experimental design and hypothesis testing, ANOVA,
MANOVA, linear and multiple regression, generalized linear modeling, principal
component analysis, clustering, sampling methods, and bioinformatics.
Prerequisites: BME203 , MATH 323 . 3 credits. Fall semester. 3 credit hours.
Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 484 - Al in Biomed Engineering 

This is a lecture-based course for biomedical engineering students interested
in learning and applying artificial intelligence (AI) approaches to real-world
biomedical problems. The course focuses on principles of a number of AI and
machine learning tools such as clustering, regression, decision trees, random
forests and neural networks and their applications in various areas of
biomedical engineering, such as biomedical data analysis, disease diagnosis,
clinical risk stratification, disease progression modeling, patient outcome
prediction, and phenotype and biomarker discovery. Students will use various
computational tools to manipulate large data sets as part of homework
assignments and projects. Prerequisites: MATH 227 (Cal II), BME 203 and BME
340 or instructor approval. Fall semester. 3 credit hours. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ISE 314 - Computer Program for Engineers 

This course provides an introduction to computer programming and its
applications for industrial and systems engineering (ISE) students emphasizing
modern software engineering techniques in the context of industrial systems.
Topics will include the fundamental concepts and applications of computer
programming, software engineering, database management, computational problem
solving, and statistical techniques for data mining. In this course,
programming languages such as Python, VB.Net, or Matlab will be taught along
with Excel VBA and SQL. Students will learn how to apply computer-programming
techniques to solve different ISE problems. Prerequisite: ISE 261 or
permission of instructor. Offered in the Fall semester. 4 credits. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ISE 434 - Fundamentals of Health Systems 

One of the growing systems in our society is that of the healthcare delivery
system. The purpose of this course is to introduce the concepts behind the
healthcare delivery systems and to focus upon the systems improvement or
continuous improvement techniques available for complex systems. Topics would
include improvement to, and problems with: organizational structure, managing
change, the financial structure, the responsibility structure, quality data
and implications of quality measures, use of clinical decision support systems
and the caregiver's role in the system. There will also be a focus upon
suppliers to the healthcare delivery system and the unique requirements placed
upon their products and processes. This course is considered a technical
elective for undergraduate students. Prerequisite: Senior standing or consent
of department chair. Cross-listed with SSIE 534. Term offered varies. 3
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ISE 439 - Human Factors Eng Healthcare 

This course introduces and emphasizes the role that human factors
engineering/ergonomics plays in healthcare systems, with a focus on its
applications to help improve quality, safety, efficiency, and effectiveness of
patient care. Focused topics include human factors in workflow models; work
system design for patient safety; human error analysis/taxonomies to reduce
medical errors; task analysis and data collection methods in healthcare
environments; clinical staff workload and patient safety; physical ergonomics
in healthcare and human performance modeling; and diffusion and adoption of
technology in healthcare, with emphasis on the usability and design of medical
devices and information systems. Prerequisite: Senior standing or permission
of instructor. Crosslisted with SSIE 539. Term offered varies. 3 credits.
Levels: Undergraduate

**Biomedical Devices and Instrumentations Concentration** (Choose two courses
to declare this concentration)

  * BME 424 - Bioimaging 

This is an introduction to biomedical imaging systems for biomedical
engineering senior undergraduate students and graduate students. The course
covers biomedical imaging with an emphasis on fundamental principles and
applications of each modern imaging modality including X-ray radiography,
computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine (SPECT and PET), magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI), and ultrasound. Lecture 3 hours per week. Prerequisite: BME
324. 3 Credit hours. Spring semester. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 260 - Electric Circuits 

Units and definitions. Ohm's Law and Kirchhoff's Laws. Analysis of resistive
circuits. Circuit analysis using: Nodal and mesh methods, Norton and Thevenin
theorems, and voltage divider. Transient and sinusoidal steady-state response
of circuits containing resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Laboratory
exercises. Prerequisite: PHYS 132. Offered every spring semester. 4 credits.
Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 420 - Biomed Devices & Diagnostics 

This is an advanced course for biomedical engineering undergraduates and
beginning graduate students. The course covers studies of significant medical
devices with a discussion of appropriate physiology, system design,
biocompatibility issues, and clinical need. Details on technological function
and administration of diagnosis and/or therapy are covered along with standard
requirements from organizations. Prerequisites: BME 324 and BME 351, Fall
semester, Lecture 3 credit hours per week. Levels: Undergraduate

  * BME 443 - Quantitative Instr Bioanalysis 

This is an advanced, elective course for biomedical engineering undergraduates
and beginning graduate students. Quantitative instrumental bioanalysis is an
overview course including various instrumental bioanalysis principles and
methods commonly used in the pharmaceutical industries and biomedical
research. The current biotechnologies based on these instrumental analyses are
discussed along with the strategy of the quality control in the healthcare
industry. The course focuses on the principles and practical application of
the analytical instruments used for quantitative analysis in medicine,
healthcare, and biomedical research. Prerequisite: BME 324 and 351. Spring
Semester. 3 credit hours. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EECE 301 - Signals And Systems 

Provides an introduction to continuous-time and discrete-time signals and
linear systems. Topics covered include time-domain descriptions (differential
and difference equations, convolution) and frequency-domain descriptions
(Fourier series and transforms, transfer function, frequency response, Z
transforms and Laplace transforms). Prerequisites: EECE 212 and 260 and MATH
324. Offered every fall semester. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

**Pre-Med Concentration**

(Students who wish to complete the pre-med concentration, but are not planning
on taking the MCAT, must complete two courses from the pre-med concentration
below, in addition to any two engineering depth electives from the other three
BME concentrations. The two additional engineering depth electives are
required to meet the 48 engineering credit hour requirement.)

  * BIOL 114 - Intro to Organisms & Pops Biol 

Introductory Biology: Organisms and Populations. Survey of organismal and
population biology; history of life; structure and physiology of plants and
animals; homeostasis, integration, growth, ecology; animal behavior;
evolution. Lecture and discussion. BIOL 113 and 114 may be taken in any order.
Offered regularly. 4 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * CHEM 332 - Organic Chemistry II 

Continuation of CHEM 231. Spectroscopy, organometallic reagents, alcohols,
ethers / epoxides, aldehydes / ketones, esters, carboxylic acids and amines.
Also with selected introduction to biologically relevant compounds including
carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids / peptides / proteins, and nucleic acids.
Credits: 4. Format: 3 hours of lecture, 2 hour discussion. Prerequisite: CHEM
231. Offered Fall, Spring, Summer II. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 335 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory 

Separation, purification and analysis of organic compounds; simple and multi-
step synthesis; spectroscopic methods. Prerequisite: CHEM 231 and CHEM 106 or
CHEM 108 or 111 or AP score = 5. Credits 2. Format: 1 hour of lecture, 4 hours
of laboratory. Offered Fall, Spring and Summer II. Course fee applies. Refer
to the Schedule of Classes. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * CHEM 341 - Intermediate Inorganic Chem. 

Relations among structure, energy and reactivity of inorganic systems;
transition and non-transition elements. Descriptive chemistry of common
elements; chemistry of solid state. Prerequisite: CHEM 105 or CHEM 108 or 111.
4 credits. Format: 3 hours of lecture. Offered: Fall. Levels: Undergraduate

  * PSYC 111 - General Psychology 

The study of behavior-an overview of fundamental concepts, methods and results
from major areas of psychological inquiry. Includes quantitative methods in
the study of psychological phenomena; physiological bases of behavior,
sensation, perception, motivation and emotion; learning; cognitive/symbolic
processes; personality and social behavior. Exposure to methods used in
psychological research is accomplished by participating in studies conducted
by department faculty (or equivalent assignment). Students must earn a grade
of C or higher for this course to apply to the major. PSYC 112 must be taken
in addition to PSYC 111, both on a letter-grade basis, to satisfy the General
Education Laboratory Science requirement. PSYC 111 and PSYC 112 do NOT need to
be taken during the same semester. Offered both fall and spring semesters as
well as often during the summer, 4 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * BIOL 403 - Biochemistry 

Cellular constituents and their roles in life procesess. Structure and
function of proteins/enzymes, membranes. Metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids,
amino acids. Energetics and regulation of metabolism. Prerequisites: BIOL 113
or BIOL 118, CHEM 231 and 332. Fall and Spring. 4 credits. NOTE: Students who
have taken BIOL 304 will NOT receive credit for BIOL 403 or BCHM 403\. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ANTH 240 - Medical Anthro for Pre-Health 

Introduction to medical anthropology, designed for students in the Pre-Health
program. Biological anthro course. 2 credits. No prerequisites. Offered in
Winter and Summer sessions. Levels: Undergraduate

_Students who plan on taking the MCAT should follow the BME MCAT Preparation
Guidesheet to complete the suggested courses prior to taking the MCAT Exam._

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
    * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
      * [ Who We Are ](/watson/student-services/advising/who-we-are.html)
      * [ Major Requirements and Guidesheets ](/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/index.html "Major Requirements and Guidesheets")
      * [ F.A.Q. and Common Referrals ](/watson/student-services/advising/faq-referrals.html)
      * [ Academic Policies ](/watson/student-services/advising/academic-progress.html "Academic Policies")
      * [ Class Schedules ](https://ssb.cc.binghamton.edu/banner/bwckschd.p_disp_dyn_sched)
      * [ FERPA ](/watson/student-services/advising/ferpa.html)
      * [ GPA Calculator ](/watson/student-services/advising/gpa-calculator.html "GPA Calculator")
      * [ Graduate Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/graduate.html)
      * [ Graduate Student Forms ](/watson/student-services/advising/grad-forms.html)
      * [ Transfer and Exam Equivalencies ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer-and-exam-equivalencies.html "Transfer and Exam Equivalencies")
      * [ Transfer Students ](/watson/student-services/advising/transfer.html)
      * [ Undergraduate Information ](/watson/student-services/advising/undergraduate.html "Undergraduate Information")
    * [ Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html)
    * [ International Partnerships ](/watson/student-services/international-partnerships/index.html)
    * [ Commencement speakers ](/watson/student-services/commencement-speaker.html)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fbme20.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fbme20.html&text=BME+Course+Guidesheet+2020-21+%7C+Thomas+J.+Watson+College+of+Engineering+and+Applied%0AScience+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fbme20.html&description=Suggested+BME+Course+Schedules+from+Watson+Advising&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fstudent-services%2Fadvising%2Frequirements%2Fbme20.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=BME%20Course%20Guidesheet%202020-21%20%7C%20Thomas%20J.%20Watson%20College%20of%20Engineering%20and%20Applied%0AScience%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/watson/student-services/advising/requirements/bme20.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 9/10/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/watson/student-
services/advising/requirements/bme20.pcf)

