Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

  * [ About ](/computer-science/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/computer-science/undergraduate-programs/)
  * [ Graduate ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/)
  * [ People ](/computer-science/people/)
  * [ Research ](/computer-science/research/index.html)
  * [ Student Resources ](/computer-science/student-resources/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/computer-science/contact.html)
  * [ Give ](/computer-science/give.html)

#  Computer Science

###  CS professor joins Academy of Inventors

Professor Lijun Yin is a pioneer in the field of three- and four-dimensional
modeling of the human face. He has released a series of facial-scan databases
used by Hollywood filmmakers, video-game creators and more.

[ READ MORE ](/news/story/2899/watson-college-professor-elected-senior-member-
of-national-academy-of-inventors)

##  Undergraduate

Undergraduate computer science majors at Binghamton become effective,
versatile coders and software developers using the C, C++, Python and Java
programming languages; develop an important foundational understanding of
algorithms, computer architecture, and operating systems; and advance to study
other cutting-edge topics including machine learning, cybersecurity, cloud
computing, data science and mobile computing.

**The Bachelor of Science program in Computer Science** is accredited by the
Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, [ http://www.abet.org
](http://www.abet.org) , under the commission’s General Criteria and Program
Criteria for Computer Science and Similarly Named Computing Programs.

[ Computer Science (BS) ](/computer-science/undergraduate-programs/cs-
major.html) [ Computer Science (Minor) ](/computer-science/undergraduate-
programs/cs-minor.html)

##  Graduate

Our programs are designed for students interested in pursuing research studies
or careers in computer science and software engineering. Our curriculum
provides students with a solid theoretical and practical foundation.

[ Computer Science (MS) ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/mscs/index.html)

[ Computer Science (PhD) ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/phd-
program.html)

[ INFORMATION SYSTEMS (MS) ](/computer-science/graduate-
programs/msis/index.html)

[ BS+MSCS and BS+MBA (4+1 Programs) ](/computer-science/undergraduate-
programs/4plus1.html)

[ GRADUATE CYBERSECURITY CERTIFICATE ](/watson/graduate/cybersecurity-
certificate.html)

##  News

[ More News ](/computer-science/about/news.html)

##  
JOB OPPORTUNITY

[ Seeking 7 new faculty members at assistant professor level — find out more
](/computer-science/about/faculty-openings.html)

##  QUESTIONS?

Call the department at 607-777-4802.

###  Blind since birth, writing code at Amazon since 2013

After receiving his computer science degree at Binghamton University, Michael
Forzano '13 interviewed to become a software engineer at Amazon. He walked in
the door, revealed to the interviewers that he was blind, and earned himself a
job by impressing them with the code he wrote on his laptop.

[ Learn more about Forzano ](https://blog.aboutamazon.com/working-at-
amazon/blind-since-birth-writing-code-at-amazon-
since-2013?token=GW&utm_source=gateway&utm_medium=editorial&utm_campaign=wkplc&utm_term=gw03152018&utm_content=forzano_A&pf_rd_p=7d409354-a50c-4416-b04c-bf313e1c8140&pf_rd_r=NEJSHX7K0B7T3Q4V4Z69)

[ Tweets by BingCompSci ](https://twitter.com/BingCompSci?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

##  Videos

* * *

[ Support Computer Science ](/computer-science/give.html)

[ School of Computing ](/computer-science)

  * [ About ](/computer-science/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/computer-science/undergraduate-programs/)
  * [ Graduate ](/computer-science/graduate-programs/)
  * [ People ](/computer-science/people/)
  * [ Research ](/computer-science/research/index.html)
  * [ Student Resources ](/computer-science/student-resources/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/computer-science/contact.html)
  * [ Give ](/computer-science/give.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Findex.html&text=Computer+Science+%7C+School+of+Computing+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Findex.html&description=This+is+the+index+of+Computer+Science+at+Binghamton+University%2C+where+you+can+explore%0Athe+information+about+undergraduate+program%2C+graduate+program%2C+employment+opportunity%2C%0Aand+news+in+Computer+Science+major.&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu+%2Fcomputer-science%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fcomputer-science%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Computer%20Science%20%7C%20School%20of%20Computing%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/computer-science/index.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/computer-science/contact.html) [ __
visit  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/computer-
science/index.pcf)

