Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/mechanical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/mechanical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ People ](/mechanical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Courses ](/mechanical-engineering/courses.html)
  * [ Online ](/mechanical-engineering/online.html)
  * [ Research ](/mechanical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/mechanical-engineering/alumni.html)
  * [ Give ](/mechanical-engineering/give.html)

#  Courses

  * ME 211 - Intro to Solid Mechanics 

Basic principles of stress and strain of structural members subject to axial,
shearing, bending, torsion and combined loads. Mechanical properties of
engineering materials. Shear and moment diagrams. Deflection of beams. Must be
completed with a grade of C- or better to satisfy ME program requirements.
Prerequisite: ME 273 with a grade of C- or better. Offered in the Spring
semester and the Summer session. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 212 - ME Programming 

Structured programming for mechanical engineers. Engineering programming with
MATLAB. Prerequisite: EDD 112 or a beginning programming course. Offered in
the Fall semester, Winter and Summer sessions. 2 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 273 - Statics 

Equilibrium of particles and rigid bodies, equivalent force system, free-body
diagrams, centroid of areas, mass moment of inertia, truss analysis, friction.
Must be completed with a grade of C- or better to satisfy ME program
requirements. Prerequisite: PHYS 131. Offered in the Fall and Spring semesters
and the Summer session. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 274 - Dynamics 

Kinematics and kinetics of particles; kinematics and kinetics of rigid bodies
(plane motion). Energy and momentum methods. Must be completed with a grade of
C- or better to satisfy ME program requirements. Prerequisite: ME 273 with a
grade of C- or better. Offered in the Spring semester and the Summer session.
3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 302 - Engineering Analysis 

Methods employed in engineering problem solving. Case studies drawn from
engineering disciplines used to apply the mathematical techniques.
Prerequisites: MATH 323 and MATH 324. Offered in the Fall semester. 3 credits
Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 303 - Eng Computational Methods 

Application of computational methods to solve engineering and scientific
problems. Topics covered include numerical methods (curve fitting, solution of
linear and nonlinear equations, integration, ordinary and partial differential
equations), graphical visualization and statistical analysis using MATLAB.
Prerequisites: ME 212 and ME 302. Offered in the Spring semester and the
Summer session. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 331 - Thermodynamics 

Properties of pure substances. Concepts of work and heat, fundamental laws of
thermodynamics; closed and open systems. Entropy and entropy production. Basic
gas and vapor cycles, basic refrigeration cycles. Prerequisites: PHYS 131.
Offered in the Fall semester and in the Summer session. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 351 - Fluid Mechanics 

Hydrostatics, kinematics, pipe flow, momentum and energy relations. Bernoulli
equation. Real fluid phenomena, laminar and turbulent motion, boundary layer,
lift and drag. Prerequisites: ME 274 with a grade of C- or better and ME 302.
Offered in the Spring semester and in the Summer session. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 362 - Science of Engr. Materials 

Introduction to the structures and structure-related properties of engineering
materials: metals, ceramics, and polymers. Physical properties of matter.
Prerequisites: CHEM 111 and PHYS 132, Prerequisite that can be taken
concurrently: ME 363. Offered in the Fall semester. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 363 - Engineering Materials Lab 

Laboratory course to accompany ME 362, Science of Engineering Materials.
Prerequisite that can be taken concurrently: ME 362. Offered in the Fall
semester. 1 credit Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 381 - Computer Aided Engr 

Fundamentals of computer-aided design, modeling, analysis and optimization.
Introduction to finite element method and use of standard packages for design
problems. Mechanism simulation. Includes laboratory section. Prerequisite: ME
211 with a grade of C- or better, Prerequisite that can be taken concurrently:
ME 212. Offered in the Fall semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 391 - Measmnt & Instrumentation 

Modular laboratory course in which the topics of thermodynamics, fluids, heat
transfer, vibrations, and solid mechanics are the subjects for the
experimental modules. Includes laboratory. Prerequisite: ME 211 with a grade
of C- or better, ME 212, and EECE 260. Offered in the Fall and the Spring
semesters. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 392 - Mechanical Engineering Design 

Application of fundamental principles of mechanics and strength of materials
to mechanical engineering design problems. Topics include fatigue, stress
concentrations, and failure theories. Decision making and engineering judgment
for open-ended problems are emphasized. Prerequisites: ME 362 and ME 381.
Offered in the Spring semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 412 - Structural Mechanics 

A bridge between elementary mechanics of deformable bodies and advanced
courses in elasticity. Topics covered include fundamental concepts of
structural mechanics, analysis of beams, columns, trusses, frames, plates and
cables, elastic stability of structures, energy method, principle of virtual
work, and other topics from structural and solid mechanics. (Technical
elective.) Prerequisite: ME 211. Semester offered varies. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 417 - Intro To Finite Element Method 

The finite element method and its application to solving simple truss, beam,
frame and 1-D fluid flow problems are discussed. Fundamentals of using
commercial software (such as ANSYS) for the finite element method are covered
through simple and intermediate examples. Knowledge of solid and fluid
mechanics, basic linear algebra, and a programming language (such as MATLAB)
are essential for this course. (Technical elective.) Prerequisites: ME 211, ME
212, and ME 381. Semester offered varies. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 421 - Mechanical Vibrations 

Free vibration of mechanical systems, damping, forced harmonic vibration,
support motion, vibration isolation, response due to arbitrary excitation,
systems with multiple degrees of freedom, normal modes, free and forced
vibrations, vibration absorber, application of matrix methods, numerical
techniques, computer applications. Prerequisites: ME 274 with a grade of C- or
better and ME 302. Offered in the Spring semester and the summer session. 3
credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 424 - Control Sys in Mechanical Engr 

Introduction to classical and modern control systems as they relate to
mechanical engineering. Modeling, analysis and design of control systems.
State space techniques are introduced. Prerequisite: ME 303, Prerequisite that
can be taken concurrently: ME 421. Offered in the Fall semester and the summer
session. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 425 - Intermediate Dynamics 

Review of the basic principles of kinematics and kinetics of particles and
planar rigid bodies. Topics include: 3D kinematics and 3D rotations,
Lagranges's approach for both particles and rigid bodies, Euler Angles and
Euler Equations. (Technical Elective.) Prerequisite: ME 274 and ME 302.
Semester offered varies. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 428 - Robotics 

This interactive course focuses on the design, programming and building of
autonomous microcomputer-controlled robots using Lego Mindstorm Robotic kit
and electro-mechanical actuators and sensors. Student will find out how to use
feedback from sensors, applied mathematics and measurement to program robot to
navigate in its environment and accomplish different tasks. Advanced topics
like robot motion control and path planning etc. will be introduced. The
course comprises many small challenges and two projects. The autonomous robots
designed and programmed by each student will compete during the semester.
(Technical elective.) Prerequisites: ME 274, ME 303, and ME 392, Prerequisites
that can be taken concurrently ME 424. Offered in the Fall and the Spring
semesters. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 429 - Intro to Non-linear Dynamics 

Basic principles of nonlinear dynamics and nonlinear oscillations. Topics
include: equilibrium solutions, stability concepts, linearization and
stability analysis, bifurcation types, periodic solutions, Floquet theory,
bifurcations, shooting technique, Poincare section, introduction to quasi-
periodic solutions, the method of multiple scales, and Chaos. (Technical
Elective.) Prerequisite: ME 302 and ME 303. Semester offered varies. 3 credits
Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 435 - Applied Aerodynamics 

Application of basic principles of fluid dynamics and thermodynamics to the
aerodynamics of flight. Deals with concepts of lift, drag, aerodynamic
moments, dynamics of flow fields about bodies, including theory of airfoils
and wings. Analytical techniques for predicting aircraft performance are
presented. Fundamental concepts of propulsion including jet propulsion are
introduced. (Technical elective.) Prerequisites: ME 331 and ME 351. Semester
offered varies. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 437 - Energy Engineering 

Principles of thermodynamics, heat transfer, fluid flow and materials science
in describing the operation of energy production and conversion. (Technical
elective.) Prerequisite: ME 331. Offered in the Spring semester. 3 credits
Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 441 - Heat Transfer 

Introduction to fundamentals of heat transfer. Topics in conduction, forced
and free convection, mixed modes (e.g., extended surfaces), heat exchangers,
radiation. Development and use of analytic and empirical expressions in terms
of dimensionless parameters. Prerequisites: ME 331 and ME 351. Offered in the
Fall semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 443 - HVAC 

Application of principles of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer
to the analysis and design of heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC)
systems. Use materials of construction data in conjunction with internal gains
to calculate heating and cooling loads. Use of psychometric data with
ventilation requirements to select and integrate HVAC components into systems.
Students will be required to generate a presentation on a relevant HVAC
topic(s). (Technical elective.) Prerequisites: ME 331 and ME 351. Offered in
the Fall and Spring semesters. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 451 - Applied Fluids Engineering 

This course aims to provide a broader knowledge base to students who intend to
seek a career in a fluids-related field. Topics include inviscid and
irrotational flows, open-channel flows, compressible flows, turbulence, turbo
machinery, flow networks, and microfluidics. Students will also be introduced
to computational fluid dynamics (CFD). (Technical Elective). Prerequisites: ME
303 and ME 351. Semester offered varies. 3 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 464 - Matls Selection for Mech Desgn 

This course covers the methodology and procedures for selecting materials and
processes at various stages of the design process for mechanical engineering
applications as well as mechanics and materials knowledge used in solving
practical problems. (Technical elective) Prerequisite: ME 211 and ME 362.
Semester offered varies. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 480A - Special Topics 

Special Topics. Topics vary by semester. 3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 482 - Adv Computer-Aided Engineering 

Advanced CAE will cover GD&T, CAM, theory and principles of CAD modeling, and
configuration management. Projects and laboratory assignments will include
solid modeling and manufacturing file output (CNC). There will be a weekly
laboratory. A final project will be a team, concurrent, distributed design
project. (Technical Elective). Prerequisites: ME 381. Semester offered varies.
3 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 484 - Design of Mechanical Elements 

This is a second course in mechanical component and systems design. Linkages,
cams, fasteners, welds, bearings, gears, brakes and clutches, and power
transmission elements will be covered. Design and analysis of components and
assemblies will be performed. Proficiency in CAE is required. The software
packages that will be used are: Creo (solid modeling and computer-aided
design) and ANSYS (finite element analysis). (Technical Elective).
Prerequisites: ME 392. Semester offered varies. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 489 - Research Internship 

A student will work in a research lab under the supervision of a professor in
the ME Department. It is the responsibility of the student to make
arrangements with the professor who will supervise this course. Prior to
enrolling in the course a Research Internship Course Proposal (RICP) form must
be completed and signed by (1) the student, (2) the professor supervising the
research, and (3) the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Prerequisites:
Permission of instructor. Offered any semester. Variable credit. Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 491 - Mechanical Engineering Lab 

Conduct experiments in the core areas of mechanical engineering. There will be
lectures and online modules to provide background and theory to accompany the
experiments that cover complex mechanical systems. Topics will include
controls, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and dynamical
systems. The course will also involve report writing and team building.
Prerequisite: ME 391. Prerequisites that can be taken concurrently: ME 421, ME
424 and ME 441. Offered in the Fall and Spring semesters. 3 credits Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 493 - Senior Project I 

Group project emphasizing definition and planning for solution of an
industrial problem. Achievement of prototype or interim design in preparation
for final design or product/process realization in ME 494. Course fee applies.
Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: ME 392. Prerequisites that can
be taken concurrently: ME 421, ME 424 and ME 441. Co-requisite: ME 498.
Offered in the Fall semester. 2 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 494 - Senior Project II 

Coordination of group project with unique industrial problem. Analysis,
design, experimentation may be brought to bear on solution. Realization of
results from final design of product or process with critical evaluation by
judging panel. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes.
Prerequisite: ME 391 and ME 493. Corequisite: ME 499. Offered in the Spring
semester. 2 credits Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 496 - Industrial Internship 

Engineering professional experience. Record of engineering experience
required. Student must obtain an industrial advisor and approval of a faculty
advisor. Appropriate paperwork must be submitted to the department. Pass/Fail
only. Variable credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 497 - Independent Study 

Individual study under direct supervision of a faculty member. Student must
obtain permission of instructor, who them determines description of program
and number of credits. Appropriate paperwork must be submitted to the
department. Variable credit. Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 498 - Senior Project I lab 

Project work with ME 493. Corequisite: ME 493. Offered in the Fall semester. 1
credit Levels: Undergraduate

  * ME 499 - Senior Project II lab 

Project work with ME 494. Course fee applies. Refer to the Schedule of
Classes. Corequisite: ME 494. Offered in the Spring semester. 1 credit Levels:
Undergraduate

  * ME 502 - Structural Mechanics 

This course is a bridge between elementary mechanics of deformable bodies and
advanced courses in elasticity. Topics covered include fundamental concepts of
structural mechanics, analysis of beams, trusses, frames, cables and arches,
determinacy and stability of structures, influence lines, energy method,
principle of virtual work, force, displacement and stiffness methods, and
other topics from structural and solid mechanics. Prerequisites: ME 211 or
equivalent course in Strength of Materials. Term varies. 3 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 506 - Vehicle Control & Simulation 

Concepts of modeling and simulation of vehicle dynamics are developed with
particular emphasis on real-time simulation. The digital simulation of the
continuous system is developed as a discrete dynamic system that may be
filtered, tuned, stabilized, controlled, analyzed and synthesized. Also
included are coordinate transformation techniques for multi-degree of freedom
systems and numerical integration techniques in the context of real-time
applications. Term project involves the simulation of the dynamics of a
vehicle such as an aircraft or a land vehicle. Prerequisite: BS degree in
engineering or physics or consent of instructor. Offered in spring semester..
3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 511 - Elasticity 

Topics covered include three-dimensional analysis and representation of stress
and strain, development of governing equations of elastic media, applications
of these equations to two- and three-dimensional problems. Prerequisite:
mechanics of materials or consent of instructor. Prerequisite: ME 211 or
equivalent. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 514 - Plasticity 

Fundamentals of deformation and strength concepts of isotropic materials.
Plastic stress-strain relations, criteria for yielding under multiaxial stress
and properties of the yield surface under loading and unloading schemes.
Hardness tests and forging problems. Elasto-plastic deformation of torsional
and flexural members, hollow spheres and thick-walled tubes. Slip-line
analysis for indentation problems, and limit analysis for frame structures and
plates. Finite element theory with applications and practical programming
experience in a convenient FEM code. Dynamic plasticity experimental methods
are discussed. Prerequisites: ME 511 or consent of instructor. Term varies. 3
credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 516X - Intro to Nonlinear Solid Mech 

This course introduces mechanics of solid materials beyond elasticity for
advanced engineering analysis. Topics covered include plasticity,
viscoelasticity, hyperelasticity, fracture and fatigue failure, and
instability theory. Prerequisites: ME 511 Credits: 3 When offered: Spring
Levels: Graduate

  * ME 517 - Finite Element Analysis I 

An introductory course in the finite element (FE) method dealing with the
fundamental principles. Problems solved in the areas of solid mechanics,
structures, fluid mechanics and heat transfer. Use of standard FE software
such as ANSYS. Prerequisite: mechanics of materials or consent of instructor.
Term varies. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 518 - Applied Mechanics for Design 

Stress and deformation analysis of structural elements such as bars, beams,
trusses, and plates that are commonly used in mechanical design. The topics
include review of equilibrium, compatibility and constitutive laws, yielding
and failure, bending problems, energy methods, plate problems, contact and
fracture problems, stability of elastic systems, and inelastic problems.
Prerequisites: ME 211 or equivalent. Term varies. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 520 - Mechanics and MFG of Composite 

Course introduces the concepts and advantages of composite materials to the
graduate student and advanced senior students. It covers the nature of
composites, mechanics of composites for analytical approaches to model the
behavior of material, and the manufacturing of composites. Prerequisite: ME511
or consent of instructor. Term varies. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 521 - Dynamics Of Mems & Microsys 

Modeling and characterization of MEMS structures. Topics include: static
analysis, free undamped vibration, free damped vibration in coupled fields
(structural, electrostatic, fluidic, thermoelastic); forced vibration,
reduced-order modeling. Introduction to perturbation approaches and nonlinear
dynamics. Prerequisites: completion of undergraduate Vibration course or co-
requisite with ME421, or permission of instructor. Term varies. 3 credits
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 522 - Acoustics 

Propagation of sound. Acoustic wave motion. Reflection of sound waves from
boundaries. Sound transmission through walls. Sound generation and radiation.
Sound propagation in ducts. Acoustic transducers: loudspeakers and
microphones. Auditory systems, bioacoustics. Prerequisite: ME535 or ME533,
graduate standing in engineering or physics or consent of instructor. Offered
in the Spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 523 - Advanced Rigid-Body Dynamics 

Fundamentals of mechanics for students in engineering practice and students
contemplating further in-depth study in mechanics. Topics included are:
kinematics of particles and rigid bodies; dynamics of articles and rigid
bodies (Newton-Euler equations, impulse momentum and work-energy principles);
analytical mechanics (virtual displacements and virtual work, Hamilton's
principle, Lagrange's equations). Prerequisite: undergraduate course in
dynamics. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 524 - Adv. Mech. Vibrations 

Fundamentals of dynamics as applied to mechanically vibrating systems.
Equations of motion for systems with multiple degrees of freedom are developed
to determine natural modes of vibration of discrete systems. Approximate
methods of solution, e.g., Rayleigh-Ritz, Galerkin's method, etc., are
discussed. Vibration of continuous systems, e.g., free and forced vibration of
strings, bars, beams and plates are considered. Numerical approaches,
including the finite element method, are applied to continuous systems.
Prerequisite: ME 421 or equivalent and ME535 or ME533 or consent of
instructor. Course is offered every spring semester. 3 credits Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 527 - Mechatronics 

Methods for analysis and design of electromechanical and piezoelectric
systems. Review of fundamentals in electronics, mechanics, and controls.
Application of Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics to mechanical and
electrical systems. Signal conditioning. Sensors and actuators. Vibration
control. Prerequisite: graduate standing in electrical or mechanical
engineering or physics, or consent of instructor. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 528 - Modern Robotics 

This is an entry level graduate course in robotics. This course gives students
a full overview of modern robotics, provides the basic knowledge on the
foundations of various aspects of robotics, and equips students with
inherently interdisciplinary skills in robotics. First, the coordinate frames
and transformation for rigid body motion will be discussed. Next, forward and
inverse kinematics for manipulator models will be introduced. Manipulator
dynamics and path generation will be followed. Robotic applications such as
motion planning, motion control, mobile robots, etc. will be discussed.
Prerequisites: ME302 Engineering Analysis and ME424 Control Systems in
Mechanical Engineering, or equivalent, or with approval of instructor. Offered
in the fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 529 - Intro to Nonlinear Dynamics 

The course aims to introduce students to the world of nonlinear dynamics and
nonlinear oscillations as demonstrated through modern and real-world examples
from various physical and engineering applications (including those from the
instructor own research in Micro and Nano systems, sensors, and actuators).
The course will teach the students the main characteristics and phenomena of
nonlinear dynamics. It will also enrich their knowledge with useful analytical
and numerical techniques to tackle nonlinear problems. Prerequisites: ME 302,
ME 303, or Graduate level standing Credits: 3 When offered: Fall and Spring
Levels: Graduate

  * ME 531X - Applied Machine Learning fr ME 

This course covers machine learning fundamentals, some popular and advanced
machine learning models. Major topics include supervised learning (logistics
regression, support vector machine, artificial neural networks, Gaussian
process), unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction),
convolutional neural networks, generative adversarial networks, physics-
constrained/informed neural networks, and optimization algorithms (stochastic
gradient descent, Bayesian optimization). This course also covers the
applications of machine learning models in mechanical engineering.
Prerequisites: ME 303 or equivalent. Offered in the fall semester Credits: 3
Levels: Graduate

  * ME 532 - Principles Biomechanical Engin 

Study of the basic mechanical properties of the human body, including the
biomechanics of locomotion and measurement of physiological parameters. The
applications of statics and dynamics to biomechanics. Studying the elastic,
hyperelastic, and viscoelastic material properties of Biological tissues.
Image-based multiscale and multiphysics modeling in biomechanics. Projects
will be included that will stress mathematical and computational modeling and
analysis of the mechanics of tissues, limbs, joints, and bioscaffolds.
Prerequisite: ME 211, ME 274, graduate and undergraduate in mechanical
engineering. Offered in the Spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 533 - Applied Mathematical Methods 

The course covers a range of topics involving mathematical and numerical
methods for solving engineering problems. The list includes: linear algebra,
nonlinear equations, ordinary differential equations, Laplace Transforms, data
analysis, statistics and numerical solution to partial differential equations.
Both analytical and numerical techniques will be presented and applied to
solve problems in mechanical engineering as well as other technical fields.
The MATLAB computing environment will be used throughout the course for
graphic, numerical computation and symbolic manipulation. Prerequisites:
Calculus I-III; Ordinary Differential Equations. Offered in the fall. 3
credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 535 - Analytical Methods I 

A survey of important analytical and numerical methods for mathematical
modeling of engineering and scientific problems. Solution of partial
differential equations, including methods for linear equations, separation of
variables and eigenfunction expansions ; review of multi-variable calculus,
including vector analysis; selected topics in linear algebra, integral
transforms and numerical approximation techniques. The analysis methods are
introduced in the context of typical engineering applications. Prerequisites:
ordinary differential equations, ME 302. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 536 - Fundamentals of Additive Manu 

Description: This course will explore additive manufacturing technologies from
a research and industrial perspectives. Topics will include conventional
subtractive machining, extrusion based additive manufacturing, metal additive
manufacturing, inkjet additive printing, photo-polymerizing technologies,
additive nano-manufacturing, and post-processing challenges. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisites: ME-441 (Heat
Transfer), ME-362 (Material Science), or equivalent, or permission of the
instructor. Normal grading option. Offered in the spring. 3 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 540 - Fundamentals of Energy Transpo 

A foundation for energy transport is developed in terms of the physical modes
of heat transfer and the formulation of computational models. Conduction,
single-phase forced and natural convection, phase-change convection, and
modern energy applications are addressed. Prerequisite: BSME or equivalent or
consent of instructor. Term varies. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 541 - Computational Fluid Dynamics 

Fundamentals of computational fluid dynamics as they relate to compressible
and incompressible flows as well as interfacial phenomena. The course involves
both MATLAB implementations and the use of commercial software. Prerequisites:
fluid mechanics and differential equations, or consent of instructor. Offered
in the Spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 543 - HVAC 

Application of principles of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer
to the analysis and design of heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC)
systems. Use materials of construction data in conjunction with internal gains
to calculate heating and cooling loads. Use of psychrometrics data with
ventilation requirements to select and integrate HVAC components into systems.
Students will be required to generate a presentation on a relevant HVAC
topic(s). (Technical elective.) Prerequisites: Thermodynamics (ME 331 or
equivalent), Fluid Mechanics (ME 351 or equivalent) or consent of the
instructor. Offered in the Fall and Spring semesters. 3 credits Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 550 - Intro To Fluid Dynamics 

A foundation for the analysis of inviscid and viscous incompressible flow is
developed. Foundation topics include Eulerian description, material
derivative, relative motion (strain-rate tensor), vorticity, Newtonian fluid
model. Equations of motion are formulated, leading to Euler and Navier-Stokes
equations. Potential flow solutions are discussed. Viscous flow is studied
using Stokes, lubrication and boundary layer approximations. Prerequisite:
graduate standing or consent of instructor. Term varies. 3 credits Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 552 - Complex Fluids 

Multiphase flows and complex fluids are treated from a mathematical and
physical perspective. Fundamental and applied research topics are covered,
including volume-averaged governing equations, particle-fluid and particle-
particle interactions, complex fluids and colloidal dispersions, dynamics of
droplets and bubbles, interfacial conditions, stability, atomization and
sprays, and experimental methods. Prerequisites: ME 550 and MSE560 (or
equivalents). Term varies. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 554 - Viscous Flow 

Various topics in viscous incompressible fluid flow. Navier-Stokes equations,
classical solutions, asymptotic methods, boundary layers, lubrication
approximation, capillarity, thin films with and without free surfaces,
interfacial stability. Prerequisites: undergraduate fluid mechanics, ME 535,
or consent of instructor. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 562 - Mechanical Behav of Engr Mtls 

A study of the response of materials to applied stresses, especially stress-
induced failures. Relationship between structure and properties, with emphasis
on microstructural changes and failure. Macroscopic and microscopic concepts
of fracture mechanics, fatigue, creep and their interactions. Emphasis on
design applications and failure analysis. Prerequisites: undergraduate courses
in mechanics of materials and materials science, or consent of instructor.
Term varies. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 563 - Thin Film & Coating Technology 

Description: This course discusses processing, structure and properties of
thin films and coatings, as well as emerging thin film materials and
applications. The goal is to connect fundamental principles of thin film
nucleation and growth to various thin film processing techniques including
vapor phase deposition, plasma etching, epitaxy, oxidation and solution
precursor methods. Structural evolution of thin films and its relation to the
properties will be highlighted. Characterization of thin films and surfaces
will also be presented. This course will be cross-listed with MSE 563.
Prerequisites: ME 362 Science of Engineering Materials, or undergraduate
courses in materials science and materials processes, or consent of
instructor. Offered in Spring. 3 credits. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 570 - Transmis'n Electron Microscopy 

Basic functions of the various components of a transmission electron
microscopy (TEM) instrument; the physics and theory of electron scattering and
electron diffraction; the physics of the interactions between fast electrons
and specimens; TEM imaging and contrast mechanisms; high resolution TEM; the
analytical techniques of energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and electron
energy loss spectroscopy (EELS); operational modes and various types of TEM
techniques to probe the structure, composition and chemistry of materials.
Prerequisite: graduate status, senior standing or consent of instructor. 3
credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 571 - Manufacturing Processes I 

The course focus is the analysis and applications of traditional and more
recently developed manufacturing processes. Also, the basic properties and
structure of materials will be reviewed. The range of manufacturing processes
to be studied include traditional machining, forming, casting, joining,
additive manufacturing and non-traditional machining. The processing of
metals, ceramics, polymers, and composites are treated. Prerequisite: ME 362
or equivalent. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 575 - Nanoscale Energy Transport 

This course will explore how energy is transported and converted via
molecules, electrons, phonons, and photons. The science of these carriers has
critical energy applications, including thermoelectrics, thermal batteries,
light emitting diodes, and photovoltaics. Covered topics include kinetic
theory, quantization of energy levels, statistical distributions, Boltzmann
transport relations, and nanoscale size effects. Applications, recent
advancement in the field, and experimental techniques will be discussed.
ME-441 (Heat Transfer), ME-331 (Thermodynamics), or equivalent. Offered in the
spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 577 - Mechanics in Energy Appl 

In the last a few years, rapid advances have been witnessed in modeling,
simulations and characterizations of mechanical behavior of advanced energy
materials and systems, and tremendous opportunities arise for further
understanding of mechanics in energy materials for superior performance. This
project-based graduate elective course will address the importance of
mechanics in all aspects of energy conversion, energy storage and energy
harvesting. This course is a Community-Engaged Learning course. Prerequisite:
None. Offered in the Spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 580A - Special Topics 

Special Topics. Topics vary by semester. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 581 - Computer Aided Engr 

Fundamentals of computer graphics, interactive graphics, introduction to CAD,
modeling, analysis and optimization. Introduction of finite element method and
use of standard packages for design problems. Dynamic simulation. Cannot be
taken in addition to ME 381 or equivalent. Term varies. 3 credits Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 582 - Adv Computer-Aided Engineering 

Advanced CAE will cover GD&T, CAM, theory and principles of CAD modeling, and
configuration management. Projects and laboratory assignments will include
solid modeling and manufacturing file output (CNC). There will be a weekly
laboratory. A final project will be a team, concurrent, distributed design
project. Prerequisites: ME 381 or ME 581 or equivalent. Offered in the Spring.
3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 584 - Design of Mechanical Elements 

This is a second course in mechanical component and systems design. Design and
analysis of fasteners, welds, bearings, gears, and power transmission elements
will be covered. Software packages will be used: Creo (solid modeling and
computer-aided design), Creo Structure or ANSYS (finite element analysis).
Prerequisites: ME 581 and ME 392. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 586 - Reliability Based Mech Desig 

The course provides an introduction to mechanical engineering reliability
analysis as well as reliable product design. The goal is to make the student
familiar with both the statistical tools as well as the possible failure modes
that enable one to model time to failure of products and to use such models
during the design phase to ensure reliable product performance. Prerequisite:
ME 392 or equivalent course. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 592 - Tech. Dev. Curriculum I 

This course is a 32-week in-house course taught at BAE Systems for students
enrolled in the BAE ELDP program only and devoted to a broad review of
engineering fundamentals, with emphasis on interdisciplinary topics related to
Electronic Systems products and processes, technologies, applications, and
problem solving techniques. Coursework includes a team-project and
presentation to engineering management. Offered in Spring, 6 credits. Levels:
Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 593 - Tech. Dev. Curriculum II 

This course is a 16-week in-house course taught at BAE Systems for students
enrolled in the BAE ELDP program only and devoted to challenging students with
problems very similar to those frequently facing Electronic Systems engineers.
Coursework includes a technical project requiring the application of systems,
software, and hardware engineering skills. 3 credits Levels: Graduate,
Undergraduate

  * ME 594 - Industrial Internship 

INDUSTRIAL INTERNSHIP Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 597 - Independent Study 

Independent study supervised by a mechanical engineering faculty member.
Student must obtain consent of instructor, who then determines description of
program, number of credits (variable), frequency of meeting and location.
Appropriate paperwork must be submitted to the department office in order to
complete registration. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 598 - ME Projects 

Literature review, mechanical engineering development or other projects as
defined by the project committee. Formal bound report for department library.
Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 599 - Thesis 

Training in the methods of research. Varied computer modeling, hardware
development and experimentation as determined by the MSME thesis committee.
Oral examination required. Bound thesis goes in University Libraries. 3
credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 610 - Fracture Mechanics 

Application of the methods of analytical solid mechanics to calculate the
driving forces of crack propagation in materials and those of experimental
solid mechanics to characterize the resistance to fracture. Concepts of linear
elastic and elastic-plastic fracture mechanics. Prerequisite: ME535. Offered
in the Fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate

  * ME 618 - Finite Elem Analysis II 

Second-level course in the understanding of finite element method. Covers
variational formulations, non-linear static and dynamic analysis, transient
problems and other specialized features of applying the finite element method
to solve engineering problems. The FE code ANSYS and/or ABAQUS is used to
solve the projects assigned in the course. Prerequisite: ME 517 or equivalent
or consent of instructor. Offered in the Spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate

  * ME 622 - Advanced Acoustics 

Physics of sound propagation. Acoustics wave motion. Reflection of sound waves
from boundaries. Sound transmission through walls. Sound generation and
radiation from vibrating structures. Sound propagation in ducts. Coupled
acoustical systems: interaction of sound with structures. Scattering of sound.
Acoustics of small-scale systems; viscous effects. Prerequisite: ME522 or
consent of instructor. Offered in the Fall. 3 credits Levels: Graduate

  * ME 627 - Random Vibrations 

Methods for analyzing the response of vibrating systems with random inputs.
Correlation and spectral methods for discrete and continuous vibrating
structures. Analysis of non-linear systems using equivalent linearization,
Gaussian closure and the Fokker-Plank equation. Applications include flow-
induced vibrations, response of distributed systems to spatially random
fields, reliability analysis and high-cycle fatigue life predictions.
Prerequisites: graduate course in mechanical vibration and a course in
ordinary differential equations, or consent of instructor. Offered in the
Spring. 3 credits Levels: Graduate

  * ME 635 - Analytical Methods II 

Complex variables, complex integration, integral transforms, generalized
functions, boundary integral methods, functional analysis. Required course for
ME PhD students. Prerequisite: ME 535\. Offered in the Spring. 3 credits
Levels: Graduate

  * ME 641 - Mesoscale Modeling Comp Fluids 

Complex fluids, i.e., polymeric liquids and melts, colloidal suspensions, and
micelle solutions, are of great importance in nanotechnology, biomedical
engineering, food science, and petroleum industry. The first half of the
course will introduce various complex fluids and their physical behavior. The
second half of the course will focus on surveying the state-of- the-art
computer simulation methods (such as molecular dynamics, dissipative particle
dynamics, lattice Boltzmann methods, and others) and their applications to
model complex fluids. Prerequisites: ME 535, ME 550, and ME 541 or consent of
instructor. 3 credits Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

  * ME 697 - Adv Independent Study 

Independent study supervised by a mechanical engineering faculty member.
Student must obtain consent of instructor, who then determines description of
program, number of credits (variable), frequency of meeting and location.
Appropriate paperwork must be submitted to the department office in order to
complete registration. For PhD students. 3 credits Levels: Graduate

  * ME 698 - Pre Dissertation Research 

Exploratory research oriented toward PhD dissertation. Levels: Graduate

  * ME 699 - Dissertation 

Research for and preparation of PhD dissertation. Levels: Graduate

  * ME 700 - Continuous Registration 

Required to maintain matriculation through any spring or fall semester when no
other courses are taken. If the minimal one-credit registration is not
maintained, student must reapply for admission. Levels: Graduate

  * ME 701 - Pract/Teaching &Research Asst 

Required for all funded graduate assistants. Research or teaching supervised
by faculty advisor. Levels: Graduate, Undergraduate

##  Also:

**ME 423 Intro to Dynamics of Microsystems**

The course aims to introduce the students to the principles of MEMS and
Microsystem dynamics and their modeling techniques. The course is multi-
disciplinary in nature and will tackle several multi-physics problems, which
include vibrations, dynamics, fluid mechanics, heat, electronics and
electricity, etc. It will emphasize analytical and some numerical modeling
techniques. The topics will include topics such as Sensing and Actuation in
MEMS (electrostatic, electrothermal, piezoelectric, electromagnetic, etc.),
Elements of Lumped-Parameter Modeling in MEMS (stiffness, damping, inertia),
case studies of accelerometers, gyroscopes, filters, switches, mirrors, and
basic principles of stability and nonlinear analysis of microsystems.
(Technical elective.)

**Prerequisite:** ME 421.

_Offered in the fall semester. 3 credits_

**ME 473 Micro/Nanomaterials Processing**

"This course will explore how micro and nano-scale materials and devices are
produced. Covered topics include the 1) fundamentals of micro and nano-
materials processing in material science and transport phenomena, 2) micro and
nano-fabrication processes for Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) and
Nano-Electro-Mechanical Systems (NEMS), 3) existing and emerging manufacturing
processes for industrial scale production of micro- and nano-scale materials,
and 4) Metrology and characterization tools for conducting research in micro
and nano-materials processing.

**Prerequisites:** ME 302 or approval of instructor.

_Term varies. 3 credits_

**ME 531 Applied Machine Learning fr ME**

"This course covers machine learning fundamentals, some popular and advanced
machine learning models. Major topics include supervised learning (logistics
regression, support vector machine, artificial neural networks, Gaussian
process), unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction),
convolutional neural networks, generative adversarial networks, physics-
constrained/informed neural networks, and optimization algorithms (stochastic
gradient descent, Bayesian optimization). This course also covers the
applications of machine learning models in mechanical engineering. Students
should be familiar with Python basic commands and programming.

**Prerequisites:** ME 303 or equivalent.

_Offered in the fall semester. 3 credits_

**ME 573X Micro/Nanomaterials Processing**

This course will explore how micro and nano-scale materials and devices are
produced. Covered topics include the 1) fundamentals of micro and nano-
materials processing in material science and transport phenomena, 2) micro and
nano-fabrication processes for Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) and
Nano-Electro-Mechanical Systems (NEMS), 3) existing and emerging manufacturing
processes for industrial scale production of micro- and nano-scale materials,
and 4) Metrology and characterization tools for conducting research in micro
and nano-materials processing. This course is cross-listed as a graduate-level
course. Completion of additional assignments is required for graduate credits.

**Prerequisites:** ME 302 or approval of instructor.

_Term varies. 3 credits_

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/mechanical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/mechanical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ People ](/mechanical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Courses ](/mechanical-engineering/courses.html)
  * [ Online ](/mechanical-engineering/online.html)
  * [ Research ](/mechanical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/mechanical-engineering/alumni.html)
  * [ Give ](/mechanical-engineering/give.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fcourses.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fcourses.html&text=Courses+%7C+Mechanical+Engineering+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fcourses.html&description=A+complete+course+listing+with+descriptions+for+the+Department+of+Mechanical+Engineering%0Aat+Binghamton+University&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fcourses.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Courses%20%7C%20Mechanical%20Engineering%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/mechanical-engineering/courses.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 9/3/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/mechanical-
engineering/courses.pcf)

