Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Engineering Design Division ](/engineering-design/)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Engineering Design Division ](/engineering-design/)

[ Engineering Design Division ](/engineering-design/)

  * [ First-Year Courses ](/engineering-design/courses/index.html)
  * [ Computer Equipment ](/engineering-design/courses/equipment.html "Equipment")
  * [ Sustainability Minor ](/engineering-design/sustainability-minor.html)
  * [ EDD People ](/engineering-design/people.html)
  * [ Undergraduate Course Assistants  ](/engineering-design/undergraduate-course-assistants.html)
  * [ Graduate Teaching Assistants  ](/engineering-design/graduate-teaching-assistants.html)
  * [ EDD News ](/engineering-design/news.html)
  * [ Watson College ](/watson/index.html)
  * [ Clubs and Organizations ](/watson/about/student-groups.html)
  * [ Support ](/watson/giving/index.html)

#  Engineering Design Division

##  Not a typical program

Our program offers opportunities for students to explore the many facets of
engineering through participation in engineering projects, student
organizations, clubs, honor and professional societies, and engineering
communities, in an atmosphere that promotes faculty and student interaction,
with personalized attention in small classroom and lab settings.

##  We help new students transition to college

The first-year Engineering Design Division program integrates engineering
fundamentals and engineering communications in a year-long program that
includes three hands-on engineering projects in the Engineering Design and
Engineering Communications courses.

The program is unique in its design to integrate the many components that
ensure the success and employability of our students and gives individual
attention to students through small classes and labs.

Students learn about the different engineering disciplines in Watson College
through presentations by faculty from those departments. There are
opportunities to meet with individual faculty as a student makes the decision
about their engineering major.

There are lectures that focus on engineering fundamentals theory in support of
the engineering projects as well.

Students often meet with industrial leaders to talk about real-world
applications and skills needed in today's workforce.

At the end of the fall semester, students declare which discipline of
engineering they will enter -- [ Biomedical Engineering ](/biomedical-
engineering/index.html) , [ Electrical Engineering ](/ece/index.html) , [
Computer Engineering ](/ece/index.html) , [ Mechanical Engineering
](http://www.binghamton.edu/me/index.html) or [ Industrial and Systems
Engineering ](/ssie/index.html) .

####  More Information about Binghamton University

  * [ University tours and open houses ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ University Bulletin ](http://catalog.binghamton.edu/)
  * [ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/)
  * [ Financial Aid ](http://bingfa.binghamton.edu/)
  * [ Registrar's Office ](http://registrar.binghamton.edu/)
  * [ Residential Life ](http://reslife.binghamton.edu/)
  * [ Parents and Families ](/admissions/undergraduate/me/parents.html)

##  Organization of Engineering Design Division

####  Fall

  * EDD 103 - Engineering Communications I 

Develops student's critical thinking skills through the completion of two
team-based projects. Emphasis is on teaming skills, critical reading,
technical writing, oral presentation skills, project management and
professionalism. A technical report and two professional presentations are
required. Corequisite: EDD 111 (linked). Offered in the Fall semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 111 - Intro to Engineering Design 

First course in a two-semester integrated introduction to the engineering
profession. Emphasizes engineering problem-solving techniques; introduction to
the engineering design process. Includes an introduction to machine shop use,
engineering graphics, circuits, and computer-aided design. This course is
assessed a $235 fee upon registration. Fees are refundable only within the
first week of classes for students that withdraw and non-refundable
thereafter. Corequisite: EDD 103 (linked). Course is offered in the Fall
semester. 2 credits. Levels: Undergraduate

Discussion/Laboratory Sections - 24 students per section - Meet once a week
for two hours

**Joint Lecture**

All students together - Meets once or twice a week for one hour

####  Spring

  * EDD 104 - Engineering Communications II 

This class builds on the skills introduced in EDD 103. Critical reading,
engineering research, and writing through a Conceptual team-based project is
emphasized. Two formal presentations, two research papers using APA
documentation style and a technical report are required. Prerequisite: EDD
103, EDD 111. Corequisite: EDD 112 (Linked). Offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

  * EDD 112 - Intro to Engineering Analysis 

The conclusion of a two-semester introduction to the practice of engineering.
Content is primarily focused on the application of mathematics in engineering.
Content is reinforced in the EDD 104 engineering design projects. Course fee
applies. Refer to the Schedule of Classes. Prerequisite: EDD 103, EDD 111.
Corequisite: EDD 104 (linked). Course is offered in the Spring semester. 2
credits. Levels: Undergraduate

Discussion/Laboratory Sections - 24 students per section - Meet once a week
for two hours

**Joint Lecture**

All students together - Meets once or twice a week for one hour

**First-Year Design projects focus on** :

  * Life-long learning 
  * Engineering fundamentals 
  * Communication 
  * Teamwork 
  * Project and time management 
  * Open-ended problem-solving 
  * Cutting-edge research 
  * Making a difference in the global community 

##  Mission Statement

  * The Engineering Design Division (EDD) First-Year Engineering Program is dedicated to providing outstanding educational opportunities for engineering first-year students to prepare them for entry into one of the engineering disciplines offered in Watson College. 
  * The program strives to provide first-year engineering students with a solid foundation of core engineering, oral and written communication, teamwork, and research skills. 
  * It accomplishes this by providing exciting design projects, a stimulating laboratory experience, and informative lectures presented by Watson College faculty and engineers from local industry. 
  * A core value of our program is frequent interaction between students and faculty to help students make a successful transition from high school to their chosen career. 
  * Please see the Engineering Design Division [ Program Educational Objectives and Student Outcomes ](/engineering-design/eddlearnobj81219.pdf) . 

[ Engineering Design Division ](/engineering-design/)

  * [ First-Year Courses ](/engineering-design/courses/index.html)
  * [ Computer Equipment ](/engineering-design/courses/equipment.html "Equipment")
  * [ Sustainability Minor ](/engineering-design/sustainability-minor.html)
  * [ EDD People ](/engineering-design/people.html)
  * [ Undergraduate Course Assistants  ](/engineering-design/undergraduate-course-assistants.html)
  * [ Graduate Teaching Assistants  ](/engineering-design/graduate-teaching-assistants.html)
  * [ EDD News ](/engineering-design/news.html)
  * [ Watson College ](/watson/index.html)
  * [ Clubs and Organizations ](/watson/about/student-groups.html)
  * [ Support ](/watson/giving/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fengineering-design%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fengineering-design%2Findex.html&text=Engineering+Design+Division+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fengineering-design%2Findex.html&description=First+year+study+at+the+Thomas+J.+Watson+College+of+Engineering+and+Applied+Science%0Aat+Binghamton+University&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fengineering-design%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fengineering-design%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Engineering%20Design%20Division%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/engineering-design/index.html)

Â© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 6/6/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/engineering-
design/index.pcf)

