Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Systems Science and Industrial Engineering ](/ssie)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Systems Science and Industrial Engineering ](/ssie)

[ Systems Science and Industrial Engineering ](/ssie)

  * [ About ](/ssie/about/index.html "about ssie")
  * [ Undergraduate ](/ssie/undergraduate/index.html "Undergraduate ssie")
  * [ Graduate ](/ssie/graduate/index.html "Graduate ssie")
  * [ Research ](/ssie/research/index.html "Research")
  * [ People ](/ssie/people/index.html "People")
  * [ Give ](/ssie/give.html)

#  Systems Science and Industrial Engineering

###  Complex Systems

The complexities of real-world networks — hidden to most of us — are
tantalizing to scientists. Understanding nonlinear connections between
multiple components in a system, or discovering simultaneous interactions
among multiple systems, demands research that is complicated and abstract.

[ Learn more about Complex Systems ](/cx "Complex Systems")

##  News

[ **More news** ](/ssie/about/news.html)

##  PROGRAMS

**The Bachelor of Science program in Industrial and Systems Engineering** is
accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, [
http://www.abet.org ](http://www.abet.org) , under the commission’s General
Criteria and Program Criteria for Industrial Engineering and Similarly Named
Engineering Programs and Program Criteria for Systems and Similarly Named
Engineering Programs.

[ Explore Undergraduate ](/ssie/undergraduate/index.html "Undergraduate
programs")  

For students looking for flexibility in their graduate studies, we also offer
online courses and certificates.

[ Explore Graduate ](/ssie/graduate/index.html "Graduate programs")  

If you’re working full-time in New York City, our one-year, Saturday-only
program in Health Systems can help you break into the healthcare industry or
advance your current healthcare career.

[ Explore Executive HEALTH SYSTEMS ](/ssie/graduate/mshs-nyc/index.html
"Executive MS")

###  Outstanding research

The Systems Science and Industrial Engineering Department received $5.8
million in committed research funds for the 2017-2018 fiscal year. This is due
in large part to the growth of the department and to the work of those in the
Watson Institute for Systems Excellence (WISE).

[ Learn more about research ](/ssie/research/index.html "SSIE Research")

##  Check us out!

##  Our Faculty

Our faculty, staff and students are friendly, collegial and committed to
providing you with an outstanding academic experience.

[ Explore Our Faculty ](/ssie/people/index.html "Explore Our Faculty")

##  MAKE A DONATION

[ Help our senior design projects
](https://advance.binghamton.edu/s/1796/interior-
giving.aspx?sid=1796&gid=2&pgid=427&cid=1081&bledit=1&dids=179)

##  QUESTIONS ABOUT SSIE?

Contact Erin Hornbeck, assistant to the chair, at 607-777-6511.

###  Research Centers

  * [ Watson Institute for Systems Excellence (WISE) ](https://www.binghamton.edu/_archive/research-old/wise.html)
  * [ Strategic Partnership for Industrial Resurgence (SPIR) ](https://www.binghamton.edu/_archive/research-old/spir/index.html)
  * [ Integrated Electronics Engineering Center (IEEC) ](/ieec/)
  * [ Center for Advanced Microelectronics Manufacturing (CAMM) ](/camm/)
  * [ Center for Collective Dynamics of Complex Systems (CoCo) ](http://coco.binghamton.edu/)
  * Healthcare Systems Engineering Center (HSEC) 

##  Our community and network

The School of Systems Science and Industrial Engineering has students, faculty
and alumni across the globe. This international community is supportive and
collaborative in research, career advancement and educational pursuits.

[ Systems Science and Industrial Engineering ](/ssie)

  * [ About ](/ssie/about/index.html "about ssie")
  * [ Undergraduate ](/ssie/undergraduate/index.html "Undergraduate ssie")
  * [ Graduate ](/ssie/graduate/index.html "Graduate ssie")
  * [ Research ](/ssie/research/index.html "Research")
  * [ People ](/ssie/people/index.html "People")
  * [ Give ](/ssie/give.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fssie%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fssie%2Findex.html&text=Systems+Science+and+Industrial+Engineering+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fssie%2Findex.html&description=Systems+Science+and+Industrial+Engineering+at+Binghamton+University.+We+make+systems%2C%0Athings+and+people+work+smarter+and+better.&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fassets%2Fimg%2Ficon-og.png)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fssie%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Systems%20Science%20and%20Industrial%20Engineering%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/ssie/index.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/29/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/ssie/index.pcf)

