Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ School of Management ](/som)

[ __ apply  ](/admissions/apply)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ School of Management ](/som)

[ School of Management ](/som)

  * [ About ](/som/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/som/undergraduate-programs/index.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/som/graduate-programs/index.html)
  * [ News ](/som/news/index.html)
  * [ Career Services ](/som/companies-and-recruiters/index.html)
  * [ Student Resources ](/som/student-resources/index.html)
    * [ Undergraduate Academic Advising ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/index.html)
      * [ Policies ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/policies.html)
      * [ Documents and Forms ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/forms.html)
      * [ Transfer Guidelines ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/transfer/index.html)
        * [ IUT and Dual Degree ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/transfer/undergrad-iut.html)
      * [ Course Sequences ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/undergraduate-course-schedules.html)
    * [ Graduate Academic Advising ](/som/student-resources/graduate-academic-advising/index.html)
    * [ Student Scholarships ](https://binghamton.academicworks.com/ "Student Scholarships")
  * [ Faculty ](/som/research/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/som/alumni-engagement/index.html)

#  Transfer, IUT and Dual Degree

We welcome your interest in the School of Management (SOM). Because of the
extremely competitive nature of internal transfer to the programs in SOM,
please read the following guidelines carefully and contact  [ Academic
Advising ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/index.html)
if you have any questions.

####  Application process and timeline

Applications for Intra-University Transfer (IUT) or Dual Degree (DD) admission
must be submitted online via the BU BRAIN by:

  * November 15 (spring admission) 
  * March 15 (fall admission) 

Priority is given to candidates who are enrolled in the second semester of the
sophomore year. Freshmen are rarely accepted into the double-degree program or
granted internal transfer. Attend an SOM IUT information session to review
criteria and preparation needed for admission.

Students will be notified of their admissions decision via e-mail. Students
must notify the Office of Undergraduate Admissions in writing if they do not
wish to accept the offer of admission. Late applications will be considered on
a space-available basis. Admission decisions are made after current semester
grades are available.

####  Admission Requirements

Transfer students who have completed only one semester at Binghamton at the
time of the IUT application must have earned at least a 3.3 here for
consideration. Recently, most admitted students had at least 57 credits with a
3.5 GPA or higher, but there is no GPA cutoff for admission or denial. Any
written statements about your circumstances will be reviewed carefully.
Credits earned through Advanced Placement Program courses, international
Baccalaureate Higher Level exams (grade of 4 or higher), and all external
college courses, including Project Advance (SUPA) or similar courses,
completed with a 'C' or better, will define your class standing (e.g.
freshman, sophomore, junior, senior). In addition to these requirements,
international applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirement
for students entering the School of Management.

####  Pre-requisite courses

It is recommended to have completed microeconomics, macroeconomics, and either
calculus or statistics by the end of the semester in which you submit your
application. Grades of A or B are necessary in each of those courses.
Additional courses can be selected which are similar to those required of all
SOM majors. Computer skills are essential and students without strong skills
should take an intro to computing course with a focus on Excel early.

####  Still have questions?

Before completing the online application via the BU BRAIN, we encourage you to
consult with [ Academic Advising ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-
academic-advising/index.html) about your questions concerning course selection
or transfer credit.

[ School of Management ](/som)

  * [ About ](/som/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/som/undergraduate-programs/index.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/som/graduate-programs/index.html)
  * [ News ](/som/news/index.html)
  * [ Career Services ](/som/companies-and-recruiters/index.html)
  * [ Student Resources ](/som/student-resources/index.html)
    * [ Undergraduate Academic Advising ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/index.html)
      * [ Policies ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/policies.html)
      * [ Documents and Forms ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/forms.html)
      * [ Transfer Guidelines ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/transfer/index.html)
        * [ IUT and Dual Degree ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/transfer/undergrad-iut.html)
      * [ Course Sequences ](/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/undergraduate-course-schedules.html)
    * [ Graduate Academic Advising ](/som/student-resources/graduate-academic-advising/index.html)
    * [ Student Scholarships ](https://binghamton.academicworks.com/ "Student Scholarships")
  * [ Faculty ](/som/research/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/som/alumni-engagement/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fsom%2Fstudent-resources%2Fundergraduate-academic-advising%2Ftransfer%2Fundergrad-iut.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fsom%2Fstudent-resources%2Fundergraduate-academic-advising%2Ftransfer%2Fundergrad-iut.html&text=Transfer%2C+IUT+and+Dual+Degree++%7C+School+of+Management+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fsom%2Fstudent-resources%2Fundergraduate-academic-advising%2Ftransfer%2Fundergrad-iut.html&description=Intra-University+transfer+guidelines+for+the+Binghamton+University+School+of+Management.%0A&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fsom%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Fpwc-rec-park.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fsom%2Fstudent-resources%2Fundergraduate-academic-advising%2Ftransfer%2Fundergrad-iut.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Transfer%2C%20IUT%20and%20Dual%20Degree%20%20%7C%20School%20of%20Management%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/som/student-resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/transfer/undergrad-iut.html)

Â© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 7/1/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/som/student-
resources/undergraduate-academic-advising/transfer/undergrad-iut.pcf)

