Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/mechanical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
    * [ 4+1 BS/MS Program ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)
    * [ Undergraduate Research ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/undergraduate-research.html)
    * [ Senior Design ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/seniordesign.html)
    * [ Pi Tau Sigma ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/pitausigma.html)
    * [ Forms / Computer Equipment ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/forms.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/mechanical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ People ](/mechanical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Courses ](/mechanical-engineering/courses.html)
  * [ Online ](/mechanical-engineering/online.html)
  * [ Research ](/mechanical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/mechanical-engineering/alumni.html)
  * [ Give ](/mechanical-engineering/give.html)

#  Undergraduate Programs

The Bachelor of Science program in Mechanical Engineering is accredited by the
Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, [ http://www.abet.org
](http://www.abet.org) , under the commission’s General Criteria and Program
Criteria for Mechanical and Similarly Named Engineering Programs.

Graduates from our program, within the first few years of their career, will
either achieve professional employment in the broad field of mechanical
engineering or related disciplines,  or enroll in programs of advanced study
in engineering,  science  and other professions, including business and law.

The curriculum has been designed to provide strong technical preparation in
the broad field of mechanical engineering.

[ BSME Fact Sheet
](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MRSjXHsIKHyx3bAiDtJXHYNxo19slyv4/view?usp=sharing)

##  Curriculum

Students enter the BSME program as sophomores from the [ Engineering Design
Division ](/engineering-design/index.html) , as junior transfers from other
schools such as community colleges, or as internal transfers from Harpur
College of Arts and Sciences. The [ BSME Curriculum ](/watson/student-
services/advising/requirements/index.html) is mapped out on the Watson
Advising page.

The program emphasizes the application of engineering fundamentals rather than
specialization within areas of mechanical engineering. However, some
specialization is permitted through elective courses. Care has been taken to
ensure a balanced integration of theory, design and laboratory practice
through the selection and sequencing of courses within the curriculum.

The primary goal is to prepare the mechanical engineering bachelor of science
graduate for a creative, lifelong engineering career.

Combined degrees and minor programs are available.

Water Propelled Rocketry (above) was an **independent study project** funded
by Binghamton University's student chapter of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers that spanned Spring and Fall 2020 semesters. The goal of
this project was to design and launch a large-scale water bottle rocket to a
height of over 200 feet and have an automatic parachute system provide safe
landings. This multidisciplinary endeavor required us to create solid models
in Creo Parametric, perform flight analysis in MATLAB, and program an Arduino
microcontroller to control parachute functionality.

##  Suggested course sequence

_[ Refer to the University Bulletin for the official requirements
](http://catalog.binghamton.edu) \- Take note of all Pre- or Co-requisites _

  * [ Technical Electives ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JuxFcx2Kao-fIAZNlVfqB-VPdpv0BYIX/view?usp=sharing)

##  4+1 BS/MS Program

**For students who excel in the mechanical engineering program, it's
recommended that they enroll in the Mechanical Engineering[ 4+1 BS/MS Program
](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html) to complete both their
bachelor's and master's in just five years. **

* * *

###  Resources

  * [ Watson Advising ](/watson/student-services/advising/index.html)
  * [ Watson Career and Alumni Connections ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/index.html) \- **[ Career Outcomes ](/watson/student-services/career-connection/alumni/outcomes.html) **
  * [ Academic Honesty ](/watson/about/academic-honesty.html)
  * [ Fundamentals of Engineering Exam ](/watson/about/engineering-exams.html)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/mechanical-engineering/about/contact.html)
  * [ Degree Requirements ](https://catalog.binghamton.edu) (Bulletin) 
  * [ Financial Aid ](/financial-aid/)

* * *

####  Engineering Licensure

The bachelor of science programs in engineering are licensure qualifying
programs. Students in a bachelor of science program in engineering who are
within 20 credits of graduation or who have graduated from one of Binghamton
University’s EAC/ABET-accredited bachelor of science programs in engineering
are automatically eligible to sit for the NCEES FE exam (National Council of
Examiners for Engineering and Surveying, Fundamentals of Engineering exam). [
Click here for exam pass rates. ](/watson/undergraduate/licensing-exams.html)

**_Please note:_ ** Students who have previously been convicted of a felony
are advised that their prior criminal history may impede their ability to
complete the requirements of programs in Watson College, participate in
certain activities or projects, and/or obtain professional engineering
licenses. Students who have concerns about such matters are advised to contact
Watson College's [ Associate Dean for Academic Affairs
](/watson/about/index.html) in the Dean's Office.

[ Mechanical Engineering ](/mechanical-engineering)

  * [ About ](/mechanical-engineering/about/index.html)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)
    * [ 4+1 BS/MS Program ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)
    * [ Undergraduate Research ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/undergraduate-research.html)
    * [ Senior Design ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/seniordesign.html)
    * [ Pi Tau Sigma ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/pitausigma.html)
    * [ Forms / Computer Equipment ](/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/forms.html)
  * [ Graduate ](/mechanical-engineering/graduate/index.html)
  * [ People ](/mechanical-engineering/people/index.html)
  * [ Courses ](/mechanical-engineering/courses.html)
  * [ Online ](/mechanical-engineering/online.html)
  * [ Research ](/mechanical-engineering/research/index.html)
  * [ Alumni ](/mechanical-engineering/alumni.html)
  * [ Give ](/mechanical-engineering/give.html)

[ 4+1 BS/MS MECHANICAL ENGINEERING PROGRAM ](/mechanical-
engineering/undergraduate/4-plus-1.html)

[ 4+1 MBA PROGRAM ](/som/graduate-programs/mba/watson.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html&text=Undergraduate+Programs+%7C+Mechanical+Engineering+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html&description=Undergraduate+information+for+the+Department+of+Mechanical+Engineering+at+Binghamton%0AUniversity.+&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fmechanical-engineering%2Fundergraduate%2Findex.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Undergraduate%20Programs%20%7C%20Mechanical%20Engineering%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/mechanical-engineering/undergraduate/index.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/mechanical-
engineering/undergraduate/index.pcf)

