Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

#  Watson

#  The Watson School

##  Our Departments, Programs

![Engineering Design Division photo](/watson/img/engineeringdesignhome.jpg)

###  Engineering Design Division

All first-year engineering students begin with a common curriculum of
engineering projects and communications, mathematics, and natural sciences.

[ Learn More ](/engineering-design/)

![Biomedical Engineering photo](/watson/img/biomedicalhome.jpg)

###  Biomedical Engineering

Integrated training provides understanding of biophysical phenomena,
healthcare systems, disease prevention, diagnostics, and treatment.

[ Learn More ](/bme)

![Computer Science photo](/watson/img/computersciencehome.jpg)

###  Computer Science

Integrated training provides understanding of biophysical phenomena,
healthcare systems, disease prevention, diagnostics, and treatment.

[ Learn More ](/cs)

  * ###  [ ](/engineering-design/)

**Engineering Design Division**  
  
__ All first-year engineering students begin with a common curriculum of
engineering projects and communications, mathematics, and natural sciences.  _
_

  * ###  [ ](/bme)

**Biomedical Engineering**  
  
_Integrated training provides understanding of biophysical phenomena,
healthcare systems, disease prevention, diagnostics, and treatment._

  * ###  [ ](/cs)

**Computer Science**  
  
_ Focus on the design and application of computing systems, ranging from
hardware and software components to networking, intelligent systems and
multimedia.  
_

  * ###  [ ](/ece)

**Electrical and Computer Engineering**  
  
_Research and teaching revolve around electrical components, circuits and
systems, microprocessors, software and hardware._

  * ###  [ ](/mse/)

**Materials Science and Engineering**  
  
_An interdisciplinary field that studies solid matter – brings chemistry,
physics and engineering together._

  * ###  [ ](/me)

**Mechanical Engineering**  
  
_Design and analyze manufacturing, equipment, heating and cooling systems,
motor vehicles, aircraft, watercraft, robotics, medical devices and more._

  * ###  [ ](/ssie/)

**Systems Science and Industrial Engineering**  
  
_We're all about people, equipment and materials — and how they work in
industry and life._

####  eWeek 2017

[ Watson Engineers Dream Big! ](/watson/eweek/index.html)

##  Innovative curriculum, real-world approach

[ ![Watson Student Services](/watson/img/studentserviceshome.jpg)
](/watson/student-services/index.html)

####  Student Services

Get support from  professional and peer advisors who understand the University
and professional system  .  

[ ![Watson Research](/watson/img/researchhome.jpg)
](https://www.binghamton.edu/_archive/research-old/index.html)

####  Research

We have diverse research activities centralized within our departments and
organized research centers.

[ ![Watson Industry](/watson/img/industryhome.jpg) ](/watson/continuing-
education/index.html)

####  Industry

We value our industry and community partners. We offer online training, world-
class facilities and equipment, funding, and student-workers

[ Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science ](/watson)

  * [ About ](/watson/about/)
  * [ Undergraduate ](/watson/undergraduate/)
  * [ Graduate ](/watson/graduate/)
  * [ Student Services ](/watson/student-services/)
  * [ Diversity ](/watson/diversity/index.html)
  * [ Continuing Education ](/watson/continuing-education/)
  * [ Research ](/watson/research/)
  * [ Facilities ](/watson/facilities/)
  * [ Alumni ](/watson/alumni/index.html)
  * [ Competes! ](/watson/competes/index.html)
  * [ Give ](/watson/giving/index.html)

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Findex-1.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Findex-1.html&text=Watson+%7C+Thomas+J.+Watson+College+of+Engineering+and+Applied+Science+%7C+Binghamton%0AUniversity)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Findex-1.html&description=&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2Frandom.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fwatson%2Findex-1.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Watson%20%7C%20Thomas%20J.%20Watson%20College%20of%20Engineering%20and%20Applied%20Science%20%7C%20Binghamton%0AUniversity&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/watson/index-1.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/contact) [ __ visit
](https://www.binghamton.edu/visit)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/21/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/watson/index-1.pcf)

