Skip to main content

[ Binghamton University: The State University of New York
](https://www.binghamton.edu/)

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

__ search

__ menu

Search

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

  * [ Academics ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
    * [ First year ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/freshman/)
    * [ Transfer ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/transfer/)
    * [ International ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/international/)
    * [ Current / Returning / Non-Degree ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/)
    * [ Check Your Status ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/status.html)
  * [ Cost & Aid ](/admissions/undergraduate/cost/)
  * [ Life ](/admissions/undergraduate/life/)
  * [ Visit ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ Contact ](/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)

#  Watson College Intra-University Transfer (IUT) or Double Degree (DD)

We welcome your application for internal transfer or double degree to the
Thomas J. Watson College of Engineering and Applied Science. Admission to
Watson College is selective. Review the specific requirements for engineering
and computer science majors and  **meet with a Watson academic advisor
(required)** during drop-in hours (Monday-Thursday, 9:30-11:30 a.m. and
1:30-3:30 p.m; Fridays 9:30-11:30 a.m.).

Note: Fulfilling requirements does not guarantee admission.

If admitted, your student record will be updated. If your plans have changed
and you do not want to accept your IUT or Double Degree, you must notify the
Admissions Office within 5 days of your decision to avoid registration
problems.

##  Engineering majors

A 3.0 cumulative GPA average or higher is recommended (3.2 or higher for
mechanical engineering).

Students must have completed and demonstrated success in the following
courses:

  * Chemistry (CHEM) 104, 105 and 106 
  * Math 224/225, MATH 226/227 
  * Physics 131 
  * Writing composition course "C" or "J" ("J" is recommended) 
  * Computer science course (Recommended: HARP 150, HARP 151 or CS 110) 
    * Course substitutions are reviewed and approved under advisement from Watson College Advising. 
    * General education: Eight credits of general education requirements are strongly suggested, but not mandatory. 

##  Computer science majors

Applications to the School of Computing for intra-university transfer (IUT),
or for adding CS as a double degree (DD), are welcome.  The process is
extremely competitive and only a small number of current students are accepted
into the CS major each year.

**Application process:**

Applications for IUT or DD admission must be submitted online via BU BRAIN by
March 15; accepted students become CS majors beginning the following Fall
semester. Decisions are communicated by email to the student’s BMail address.

**Criteria**

Decisions about IUT applications are based on space availability each year. CS
is a very popular major with limited seats in required courses.  All IUT
applicants must have earned at least a 3.5 cumulative average for
consideration.

Decisions will be based on the applicant's:

  * academic performance to date, especially in the most relevant courses (including but not limited to math and writing courses), and 

  * demonstrated interest and aptitude for computer science, computer programming, or both. 

Ideally, applicants should have completed Calculus I and II (  MATH 224/225
and MATH 226/227). If an applicant has transfer credit for these courses, then
8 credits in MATH at the 300 level or higher are recommended. Students should
also have completed one C or J General Education course.

**Other considerations**

**Apply early**

Students are encouraged to apply for IUT or DD admission as early as possible
in their academic careers, to ensure sufficient time to complete the CS major
requirements, or to pursue other interests. Ideally, IUT to CS, or the
addition of CS as a second  degree, would happen within a student’s first year
at Binghamton University.

**Time to degree**

Students who wish to major in CS, but who have been enrolled at Binghamton
University for more than one year without taking CS courses, should be aware
that meeting the requirements of the CS major could delay graduation.

**MS alternative**

As an alternative to an undergraduate CS major, some students may be able to
complete a major such as mathematics, enroll in some bridge courses, and then
apply to earn a masters in CS or information science at Binghamton. [ Contact
our undergraduate or graduate director ](/computer-science/people/staff.html)
if you would like to consider this option.

**Academic questions?**

Before completing the online application via BU BRAIN, direct your questions
concerning course selection, transfer credit or other academic issues to the [
Watson Academic Advising Office ](/watson/student-
services/advising/index.html) .

[ Undergraduate Admissions ](/admissions/undergraduate)

  * [ Academics ](/admissions/undergraduate/academics/)
  * [ Apply ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/)
    * [ First year ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/freshman/)
    * [ Transfer ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/transfer/)
    * [ International ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/international/)
    * [ Current / Returning / Non-Degree ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/)
    * [ Check Your Status ](/admissions/undergraduate/apply/status.html)
  * [ Cost & Aid ](/admissions/undergraduate/cost/)
  * [ Life ](/admissions/undergraduate/life/)
  * [ Visit ](/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)
  * [ Contact ](/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)

###  Contact

[ Watson College Advising Office ](/watson/student-
services/advising/index.html "Watson advising")  
Engineering Building, EB-M00  
  

  * [ __ Share on Facebook  ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-watson.html)
  * [ __ Share on Twitter  ](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-watson.html&text=Watson+College+Intra-University+Transfer+%28IUT%29+or+Double+Degree+%28DD%29+%7C+Undergraduate%0AAdmissions+%7C+Binghamton+University)
  * [ __ Share on Pinterest  ](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-watson.html&description=Information+for+current+Binghamton+University+students+applying+to+transfer+into+the%0AWatson+College+of+Engineering+or+earn+a+double+degree&media=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fimg%2Fhi-res%2F20130925_studentunionstock106_FJ.jpg)
  * [ __ Share on LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.binghamton.edu%2Fadmissions%2Fundergraduate%2Fapply%2Fcurrent%2Fiut-watson.html&mini=true)
  * [ __ Share by Email  ](mailto:?subject=Watson%20College%20Intra-University%20Transfer%20%28IUT%29%20or%20Double%20Degree%20%28DD%29%20%7C%20Undergraduate%0AAdmissions%20%7C%20Binghamton%20University&body=https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/iut-watson.html)

© 2024 Binghamton University  State University of New York

  * [ Accessibility ](/accessibility/)
  * [ Emergencies ](/alert/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)

[ __ contact  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/contact/)
[ __ visit  ](https://www.binghamton.edu/admissions/undergraduate/visit/)

__ share

Return to Top  __

[ Last Updated: 8/27/24
](https://a.cms.omniupdate.com/11/?skin=binghamton&account=Migration&site=binghamton&action=de&path=/admissions/undergraduate/apply/current/iut-
watson.pcf)

